projects/js-html-games.md, before:

# JS + HTML Games

Make one or more of 3 games to practice using HTML and JS. They are listed easiest to hardest. Feel free to work on whichever one(s) are a good challenge for you. There's not much instruction -- it's up to you to decide how the site will look and the details of how it works. Be creative!

### Project Requirements

- Make 1 or more games using JS and HTML
- Include a README with a demo, and instructions for how to run the code
  - Pro-tip: CSS is not a requirement of this project, so it's smart to do the basics and focus on other curriculum unless you have extra time to practice design

### Extension (not requried)

- Use GitHub Pages to serve the games. You can follow [these instructions](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/f1-u3-github-pages) to deploy your code.
-

## Games

### Coin Flip

Make a web page where you can flip a coin and it comes up heads 50% of the time and tails the other 50%.

Optional Extension:

- Add a box where the user can say how many coins they want to flip. Then display that many coins and flip them all randomly.

### Guess My Number

Make a web page that generates a secret random number and the user can guess the number until they get it right.
For each guess, the game should display whether the answer is higher, lower, or correct.

Optional Extensions:

- Track how many wrong guesses the user has made so far and display that count
- Track what numbers the user has already guessed and display those
- Let the user choose the range of the secret number

### Boggle

Make a web page with [Boggle](https://coursera.cs.princeton.edu/algs4/assignments/boggle/specification.php)

Optional Extensions:

- Add a timer so that each person can only take a certain amount of time for a turn
- Advanced: Write a function that can [solve the boggle game](https://www.codewars.com/kata/boggle-solver/javascript) - find all the valid words using a dictionary

Commit message:

edits JS game document to have main goals

projects/js-html-games.md, after:

# JS + HTML Games

Make one or more of 3 games to practice using HTML and JS. They are listed easiest to hardest. Feel free to work on whichever one(s) are a good challenge for you. There's not much instruction -- it's up to you to decide how the site will look and the details of how it works. Be creative!

### Primary Goals

1. Understand and demonstrate the connection between HTML and JS DOM manipulation through game logic
2. Create a dynamic site that changes upon user input
3. Site shows changing information to a user
4. Include clear, concise comments about your code for future recall and so others can easily digest it (Include important resources, attributions, why code is written a particular way, etc.)

### Project Requirements

- Make 1 or more games using JS and HTML
- Pro-tip: CSS is not a requirement of this project, so it's smart to do the basics and focus on other curriculum unless you have extra time to practice design

### Extension (not required)

- Use GitHub Pages to serve the games. You can follow [these instructions](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/f1-u3-github-pages) to deploy your code.
-

## Games

### Coin Flip

Make a web page where you can flip a coin and it comes up heads 50% of the time and tails the other 50%.

Optional Extension:

- Add a box where the user can say how many coins they want to flip. Then display that many coins and flip them all randomly.

### Guess My Number

Make a web page that generates a secret random number and the user can guess the number until they get it right.
For each guess, the game should display whether the answer is higher, lower, or correct.

Optional Extensions:

- Track how many wrong guesses the user has made so far and display that count
- Track what numbers the user has already guessed and display those
- Let the user choose the range of the secret number

### Boggle

Make a web page with [Boggle](https://coursera.cs.princeton.edu/algs4/assignments/boggle/specification.php)

Optional Extensions:

- Add a timer so that each person can only take a certain amount of time for a turn
- Advanced: Write a function that can [solve the boggle game](https://www.codewars.com/kata/boggle-solver/javascript) - find all the valid words using a dictionary
