projects/react-game.md, before:

# Project - React Game

### Introduction

You've now learned enough React to create a game! This project is to practice fundamentals of React: components, props, and state.

### General guidelines for projects:

You are welcome to rewrite the game you made last week in React or to make a different one.

Here are some [examples](https://bg.reactjs.org/community/examples.html).

**Please do not select hangman because of its racist origins.**

**Kindly avoid choosing the BMI calculator from the examples provided above, as it may be associated with sensitive issues such as racism and sizeism.**

You can start this app in codeSandbox, codePen, replit.com, etc and then this week you'll learn how to build React apps locally and you can move the ode to your local drive.

### Minimum Requirements

- Write a game of your choosing in React
- Make sure you practice components, props, and state
  - Have some sort of input that you receive from one component that you pass to another (such as number of tries, hi/low number, etc.)
  - Have some sort of counter that uses the useState hook to update the score or count to the screen
- Commit your code at least 15 times
- Submit at least 1 PR by the end of the week

#### Extension Activity

If you have extra time, consider [hosting your game on GitHub Pages](https://betterprogramming.pub/how-to-host-your-react-app-on-github-pages-for-free-919ad201a4cb).

Commit message:

Remove codesandbox references, encourage version control
Remove any references telling participants to start their project in a repl, such as codesandbox, codepen, replit, etc. Instead, encourage participants to start their project locally in order to test React and to utilize git version control to save all progress.

projects/react-game.md, after:

# Project - React Game

### Introduction

You've now learned enough React to create a game! This project is to practice fundamentals of React: components, props, and state.

### General guidelines for projects:

You are welcome to rewrite the game you made last week in React or to make a different one.

Here are some [examples](https://bg.reactjs.org/community/examples.html).

**Please do not select hangman because of its racist origins.**

**Kindly avoid choosing the BMI calculator from the examples provided above, as it may be associated with sensitive issues such as racism and sizeism.**

We encourage you to use git version control and GitHub to save your progress as you build up your work. This way you'll work on testing out React in your text editors locally.

### Minimum Requirements

- Write a game of your choosing in React
- Make sure you practice components, props, and state
  - Have some sort of input that you receive from one component that you pass to another (such as number of tries, hi/low number, etc.)
  - Have some sort of counter that uses the useState hook to update the score or count to the screen
- Commit your code at least 15 times
- Submit at least 1 PR by the end of the week

#### Extension Activity

If you have extra time, consider [hosting your game on GitHub Pages](https://betterprogramming.pub/how-to-host-your-react-app-on-github-pages-for-free-919ad201a4cb).
