projects/eventonica/README.md, before:

# Intro to Eventonica

Welcome to the Eventonica project!

In this project, you'll make a web app to manage events.

You'll work on this project over the next several weeks. The features will remain the same but as you learn more libraries and techniques, you'll integrate those into the app. By the end you'll have built a full-stack web app with React and a database.

## Project Requirements

### Events

- Add a new Event
  - The attributes are up to you. Look through all the features and see what an Event needs
- Delete an Event

### Search Events

- Search for events by date
- Search for events by category

### Users

- Add a new User
- Delete a User

### Favorite Events

- A User can **favorite** an Event
- A User can **unfavorite** an Event
- A User can view their list of previously favorite events

### Optional Bonus Requirements

- Update existing Event
- Update existing User

## Assignment Sequence

1. [Part 1 - Object-Oriented Programming](./eventonica-part1-objects.md)
1. [Part 2a - Unit Testing](./eventonica-part2-testing.md)
1. [Part 2b - UI](./eventonica-part2-ui.md) - Turn your code into a web app using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
1. ~~Part 4 - Ticketmaster API~~ _Moved to an optional bonus below, as of H1-2021_
1. [Part 5 - Express API](./eventonica-part5-express-backend.md)
1. [Part 6 - Postgres Database](./eventonica-part6-postgres.md)
1. [Part 7 - React](./eventonica-part7-react.md)

## Optional Assignments

- [Part 8 - API Testing](./eventonica-part8-api-testing.md) - 🐣 New in 2021
- [Integrate the Ticketmaster API](./eventonica-part-4-apis.md) to allow the user to create events from real data (originally Part 4)

Commit message:

feat(eventonica-react): convert proj to use react day 1, start jest& RTL (#1601)
Adds:

All react, with create-react-app on Day 1
Jest & React Testing Library (wip)
All leading to very different starter code
Removes:

JS DOM
jasmine testing

projects/eventonica/README.md, after:

# Intro to Eventonica

Welcome to the Eventonica project!

> Note: as of Summer 2021, we will be jumping straight into [eventonica-react](../eventonica-react/README.md).  Please go to there unless you know you want to follow these Vanilla JS Eventonica outlines instead.

In this project, you'll make a web app to manage events.

You'll work on this project over the next several weeks. The features will remain the same but as you learn more libraries and techniques, you'll integrate those into the app. By the end you'll have built a full-stack web app with React and a database.

## Project Requirements

### Events

- Add a new Event
  - The attributes are up to you. Look through all the features and see what an Event needs
- Delete an Event

### Search Events

- Search for events by date
- Search for events by category

### Users

- Add a new User
- Delete a User

### Favorite Events

- A User can **favorite** an Event
- A User can **unfavorite** an Event
- A User can view their list of previously favorite events

### Optional Bonus Requirements

- Update existing Event
- Update existing User

## Assignment Sequence

1. [Part 1 - Object-Oriented Programming](./eventonica-part1-objects.md)
1. [Part 2a - Unit Testing](./eventonica-part2-testing.md)
1. [Part 2b - UI](./eventonica-part2-ui.md) - Turn your code into a web app using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
1. ~~Part 4 - Ticketmaster API~~ _Moved to an optional bonus below, as of H1-2021_
1. [Part 5 - Express API](./eventonica-part5-express-backend.md)
1. [Part 6 - Postgres Database](./eventonica-part6-postgres.md)
1. [Part 7 - React](./eventonica-part7-react.md)

## Optional Assignments

- [Part 8 - API Testing](./eventonica-part8-api-testing.md) - 🐣 New in 2021
- [Integrate the Ticketmaster API](./eventonica-part-4-apis.md) to allow the user to create events from real data (originally Part 4)
