prework/prework.md, before:

# **Techtonica Pre-Work**

These assignments are to prepare you for starting full-time at Techtonica. There will be a study group each week where volunteers can help. Be sure to plan ahead and pace yourself, each day’s work load is full and a good indication of the level of work expectation and pacing that will go into each day of learning in the program.

Mark off your work in your pre-work checklist (see [onboarding doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xI4QYg3TO-IBjPB3LlE33yRzWC-B8Dir-cnMAl-ZaSE/edit?usp=sharing) for link).

### Pre-Work Day 1:

- Read and review [Techtonica&#39;s Participant Handbook](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bPp3wT4YUo2PuNSYLMwIW9TkU6trd7NSuR9ieHv9MME/edit#heading=h.ez75on7s6lo4)
- Read and review this [pair programming roles definition](https://gist.github.com/jordanpoulton/607a8854673d9f22c696)
- Do the [freeCodeCamp&#39;s Debugging](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/debugging/)section
- Git Started with GitHub - [Free course from Udemy](https://www.udemy.com/course/git-started-with-github/)
  - Please note that there has been changes in this process in the section 3 step 13: Here is a doc about how to [work with the new Authentication process](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V596QwRYzMAwYtCpTBXCHj-ykRqDxo42TokENLgkulk/edit#)
- Follow the instructions to configure your zsh terminal, according with [these instructions](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BaUWobXXujWZ3JS2Y1TP-fx7Xba3CMYQ/view?usp=sharing)
- - Listen to the 28 minute podcast about [Fixed and Growth Mindset with Carol Dweck
](https://www.oneyoufeed.net/fixed-and-growth-mindset/)
- Look through our [Time Management slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VGlfYtWXQ8TEXsq4Bad0k2WZ-mK02hI3UwVXrfuUpPA/edit?usp=sharing)
- White participants: do the first seven days of the [_Me & White Supremacy workbook_](http://laylafsaad.com/meandwhitesupremacy) (if you would like your own copy and need support to buy it, please reach out to Techtonica staff to order it for you)

### Pre-Work Day 2:

- Practice working with Git and GitHub ​[https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/)
- Play, learn and practice how to use Git with [Atlassian interactive course](https://www.atlassian.com/git)
- [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/) is an interactive website that teaches git in an animated way.
- Read and practice with the [article Javascript String Functions](https://stephen-furlani.notion.site/Javascript-String-Functions-fccff1bce23f4b2dbcfac0d1ea50a814) (thanks to Stephen Furlani for the contribution)
- Learn Apple keyboard shortcuts using [Techtonica’s Keyboard Shortcuts Practice App](https://techtonica.github.io/keyboard-shortcuts-practice/)
- Go through [“Working and Collaborating Remotely”](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/career/working-and-collaborating-remotely.md)
- Listen or read the transcript for the podcast:  [Hans Krueger on the Cycle of Emotions](https://theinformed.life/2021/11/21/episode-75-hans-krueger/)
- Do  the 1-4 of these 16 problems: [freeCodeCamp Basic Algorithm Scripting](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-algorithm-scripting/)
- Note: Many of these problems are challenging! Try to figure out the solutions and get the code working on your own even if it's hard -- that's what will make you improve as a programmer.
- IMPORTANT! Last week to submit your [Techtonica photos](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfyvhCYCSGUA5uhGGOY5usP0z4zhlMwGDDaPRLhNU_SCSZn4Q/viewform).


### Pre-Work Day 3:

- Watch and practice with [JavaScript Arrays and Objects Basic Data Structures](https://www.udemy.com/course/javascript-coding/) (free course)
- Prep your mindset by learning about [the Growth Mindset](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/onboarding/YCLA_LessonPlan_v10.pdf)
- Do 5-8 of the 16 problems from [freeCodeCamp Basic Algorithm Scripting](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-algorithm-scripting/). 
- Listen the podcast: [Learning How to Learn with Dr. Barbara Oakley](https://www.leadinglearning.com/episode-104-barbara-oakley/)
- Listen or read the transcript from René Brown podcast: [Terrific First Times ](https://brenebrown.com/podcast/brene-on-ffts/)
- Watch and code with Free JavaScript Tutorial - [Javascript Array Methods](https://www.udemy.com/course/javascript-array-methods/) (2 hours)
- Practice git with this free resource: [https://jwiegley.github.io/git-from-the-bottom-up/](https://jwiegley.github.io/git-from-the-bottom-up/)
- Read and study the [The JavaScript Array Handbook from FreeCodeCamp ](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-javascript-array-handbook/)
- Watch the “Objects and Arrays” section from the free course [Learn to Program in Javascript: Beginner to Pro](https://www.udemy.com/course/programming-in-javascript/) (50 mins) on Udemy

**We highly recommend that you keep studying Javascript and practice the first 20 very easy level code challenges on [Edabit](https://edabit.com/challenges):**

### Pre-Work Day 4:

- Watch and practice the lessons about Classes, modules and Scope from [Javascript in 12 Easy Lessons](https://www.udemy.com/course/javascript-in-12-easy-lessons/) (lessons 8-9-10)
- Do at least 9-12 of these 16 problems: [freeCodeCamp Basic Algorithm Scripting](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-algorithm-scripting/)
- Listen the podcast: [How to Trade Expectations for Appreciation](https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/how-to-trade-expectations-for-appreciation-a/id1098413063?i=1000500370199)
- Watch the lesson [Debugging JS in VSCode](https://open.appacademy.io/learn/full-stack-online/javascript/debugging-js-in-vscode) on app academy (Free resource)
  - Here are [the docs](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging) for debugging in VS Code.
  - While Debugger for Chrome extension is depreciated, please try using similar extensions such as the [Debug JavaScript](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/javascript) chrome extension 
- Read [JavaScript For Cats](http://jsforcats.com/)
- Do the [6 basic exercises about objects in JS from exercism](https://exercism.org/tracks/javascript/exercises/high-score-board) (The High Score Board exercise)
- Read about [Techtonica’s feedback framework](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bPp3wT4YUo2PuNSYLMwIW9TkU6trd7NSuR9ieHv9MME/edit#heading=h.ncx7nw2pegwg)
- Practice your intro (1 minute max) for the launch celebration until you have it memorized and you can keep it to under two minutes. Include your name, one small phrase about what you did before Techtonica, why you haven’t been able to get into tech, why you’ll make a great software engineer, and why you’re excited for Techtonica. Here are some examples of personal pitches that you can read: [https://medium.com/techtonica/participant-story-abby-f7c4bce3d657](https://medium.com/techtonica/participant-story-abby-f7c4bce3d657)

### Pre-Work Day 5:

- Complete and turn in [exercises 1 to 8 from the prework folder](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/tree/main/prework) via a GitHub link (using the public JS exercises repo)  on the Pre-Work checklist (see [onboarding doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xI4QYg3TO-IBjPB3LlE33yRzWC-B8Dir-cnMAl-ZaSE/edit?usp=sharing) for link).
- Read through [“Tips for Succeeding at Techtonica”](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SWiUl0lYQ0sYDM8vQnVhJVOvT4MRA-9pDglKOgqTWak/edit?usp=sharing) and [The Recurse Center’s User Manual](https://www.recurse.com/manual)
- Go through the [“Learning to Learn”](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/onboarding/learning-to-learn.md) topic outline
- Do the 4 task in the [Javascript Fundamentals: Objects](https://javascript.info/object#tasks) website (submit those in a GitHub Link too)
- Do the knowledge check about [Objects from the Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/paths/full-stack-javascript/courses/javascript/lessons/objects-and-object-constructors#knowledge-check)
- Listen to the podcast: [Do You Receive Feedback Well?](https://www.michellemcquaid.com/podcast/do-you-receive-feedback-well-podcast-with-sheila-heen/)
- Adjust your sleep schedules to be prepared to work in Pacific Time
- Submit your Medium Profiles today (see [onboarding doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xI4QYg3TO-IBjPB3LlE33yRzWC-B8Dir-cnMAl-ZaSE/edit?usp=sharing) for link)

### Optional (if you finish the above work, choose what you're interested in next!)

- [Vim Adventures](https://vim-adventures.com/)
- HTML and CSS: [https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/ud001](https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/ud001) (5 hours class)
- Try to build your own very simple HTML - CSS website. Here are some resources.
  - [https://www.udemy.com/course/html-css-and-javascript-the-complete-web-developer-course/ ](https://www.udemy.com/course/html-css-and-javascript-the-complete-web-developer-course/)
  - [https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-html](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-html)
- See if your local library offers free online learning resources (for example [this link for the Seattle Library](https://www.spl.org/online-resources/online-learning)) -it’s very possible that you have access to free resources to learn code if your local library has this option.

### Be sure to [RSVP](https://www.eventbrite.com/o/techtonica-11297022451) for your study group sessions to work through your pre-work materials.

Commit message:

Add reminder to complete onboarding

prework/prework.md, after:

# **Techtonica Pre-Work**

These assignments are to prepare you for starting full-time at Techtonica. There will be a study group each week where volunteers can help. Be sure to plan ahead and pace yourself, each day’s work load is full and a good indication of the level of work expectation and pacing that will go into each day of learning in the program. Mark off your work in your pre-work checklist (see [onboarding doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xI4QYg3TO-IBjPB3LlE33yRzWC-B8Dir-cnMAl-ZaSE/edit?usp=sharing) for link).

_**⚠️ Remember to complete your [onboarding](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xI4QYg3TO-IBjPB3LlE33yRzWC-B8Dir-cnMAl-ZaSE/edit?usp=sharing) requirements (if you haven’t already) ⚠️**_

### Pre-Work Day 1:

- Read and review [Techtonica&#39;s Participant Handbook](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bPp3wT4YUo2PuNSYLMwIW9TkU6trd7NSuR9ieHv9MME/edit#heading=h.ez75on7s6lo4)
- Read and review this [pair programming roles definition](https://gist.github.com/jordanpoulton/607a8854673d9f22c696)
- Do the [freeCodeCamp&#39;s Debugging](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/debugging/)section
- Git Started with GitHub - [Free course from Udemy](https://www.udemy.com/course/git-started-with-github/)
  - Please note that there has been changes in this process in the section 3 step 13: Here is a doc about how to [work with the new Authentication process](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V596QwRYzMAwYtCpTBXCHj-ykRqDxo42TokENLgkulk/edit#)
- Follow the instructions to configure your zsh terminal, according with [these instructions](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BaUWobXXujWZ3JS2Y1TP-fx7Xba3CMYQ/view?usp=sharing)
- - Listen to the 28 minute podcast about [Fixed and Growth Mindset with Carol Dweck
](https://www.oneyoufeed.net/fixed-and-growth-mindset/)
- Look through our [Time Management slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VGlfYtWXQ8TEXsq4Bad0k2WZ-mK02hI3UwVXrfuUpPA/edit?usp=sharing)
- White participants: do the first seven days of the [_Me & White Supremacy workbook_](http://laylafsaad.com/meandwhitesupremacy) (if you would like your own copy and need support to buy it, please reach out to Techtonica staff to order it for you)

### Pre-Work Day 2:

- Practice working with Git and GitHub ​[https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/)
- Play, learn and practice how to use Git with [Atlassian interactive course](https://www.atlassian.com/git)
- [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/) is an interactive website that teaches git in an animated way.
- Read and practice with the [article Javascript String Functions](https://stephen-furlani.notion.site/Javascript-String-Functions-fccff1bce23f4b2dbcfac0d1ea50a814) (thanks to Stephen Furlani for the contribution)
- Learn Apple keyboard shortcuts using [Techtonica’s Keyboard Shortcuts Practice App](https://techtonica.github.io/keyboard-shortcuts-practice/)
- Go through [“Working and Collaborating Remotely”](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/career/working-and-collaborating-remotely.md)
- Listen or read the transcript for the podcast:  [Hans Krueger on the Cycle of Emotions](https://theinformed.life/2021/11/21/episode-75-hans-krueger/)
- Do  the 1-4 of these 16 problems: [freeCodeCamp Basic Algorithm Scripting](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-algorithm-scripting/)
- Note: Many of these problems are challenging! Try to figure out the solutions and get the code working on your own even if it's hard -- that's what will make you improve as a programmer.
- IMPORTANT! Last week to submit your [Techtonica photos](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfyvhCYCSGUA5uhGGOY5usP0z4zhlMwGDDaPRLhNU_SCSZn4Q/viewform).


### Pre-Work Day 3:

- Watch and practice with [JavaScript Arrays and Objects Basic Data Structures](https://www.udemy.com/course/javascript-coding/) (free course)
- Prep your mindset by learning about [the Growth Mindset](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/onboarding/YCLA_LessonPlan_v10.pdf)
- Do 5-8 of the 16 problems from [freeCodeCamp Basic Algorithm Scripting](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-algorithm-scripting/). 
- Listen the podcast: [Learning How to Learn with Dr. Barbara Oakley](https://www.leadinglearning.com/episode-104-barbara-oakley/)
- Listen or read the transcript from René Brown podcast: [Terrific First Times ](https://brenebrown.com/podcast/brene-on-ffts/)
- Watch and code with Free JavaScript Tutorial - [Javascript Array Methods](https://www.udemy.com/course/javascript-array-methods/) (2 hours)
- Practice git with this free resource: [https://jwiegley.github.io/git-from-the-bottom-up/](https://jwiegley.github.io/git-from-the-bottom-up/)
- Read and study the [The JavaScript Array Handbook from FreeCodeCamp ](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-javascript-array-handbook/)
- Watch the “Objects and Arrays” section from the free course [Learn to Program in Javascript: Beginner to Pro](https://www.udemy.com/course/programming-in-javascript/) (50 mins) on Udemy

**We highly recommend that you keep studying Javascript and practice the first 20 very easy level code challenges on [Edabit](https://edabit.com/challenges):**

### Pre-Work Day 4:

- Watch and practice the lessons about Classes, modules and Scope from [Javascript in 12 Easy Lessons](https://www.udemy.com/course/javascript-in-12-easy-lessons/) (lessons 8-9-10)
- Do at least 9-12 of these 16 problems: [freeCodeCamp Basic Algorithm Scripting](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-algorithm-scripting/)
- Listen the podcast: [How to Trade Expectations for Appreciation](https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/how-to-trade-expectations-for-appreciation-a/id1098413063?i=1000500370199)
- Watch the lesson [Debugging JS in VSCode](https://open.appacademy.io/learn/full-stack-online/javascript/debugging-js-in-vscode) on app academy (Free resource)
  - Here are [the docs](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging) for debugging in VS Code.
  - While Debugger for Chrome extension is depreciated, please try using similar extensions such as the [Debug JavaScript](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/javascript) chrome extension 
- Read [JavaScript For Cats](http://jsforcats.com/)
- Do the [6 basic exercises about objects in JS from exercism](https://exercism.org/tracks/javascript/exercises/high-score-board) (The High Score Board exercise)
- Read about [Techtonica’s feedback framework](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bPp3wT4YUo2PuNSYLMwIW9TkU6trd7NSuR9ieHv9MME/edit#heading=h.ncx7nw2pegwg)
- Practice your intro (1 minute max) for the launch celebration until you have it memorized and you can keep it to under two minutes. Include your name, one small phrase about what you did before Techtonica, why you haven’t been able to get into tech, why you’ll make a great software engineer, and why you’re excited for Techtonica. Here are some examples of personal pitches that you can read: [https://medium.com/techtonica/participant-story-abby-f7c4bce3d657](https://medium.com/techtonica/participant-story-abby-f7c4bce3d657)

### Pre-Work Day 5:

- Complete and turn in [exercises 1 to 8 from the prework folder](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/tree/main/prework) via a GitHub link (using the public JS exercises repo)  on the Pre-Work checklist (see [onboarding doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xI4QYg3TO-IBjPB3LlE33yRzWC-B8Dir-cnMAl-ZaSE/edit?usp=sharing) for link).
- Read through [“Tips for Succeeding at Techtonica”](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SWiUl0lYQ0sYDM8vQnVhJVOvT4MRA-9pDglKOgqTWak/edit?usp=sharing) and [The Recurse Center’s User Manual](https://www.recurse.com/manual)
- Go through the [“Learning to Learn”](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/onboarding/learning-to-learn.md) topic outline
- Do the 4 task in the [Javascript Fundamentals: Objects](https://javascript.info/object#tasks) website (submit those in a GitHub Link too)
- Do the knowledge check about [Objects from the Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/paths/full-stack-javascript/courses/javascript/lessons/objects-and-object-constructors#knowledge-check)
- Listen to the podcast: [Do You Receive Feedback Well?](https://www.michellemcquaid.com/podcast/do-you-receive-feedback-well-podcast-with-sheila-heen/)
- Adjust your sleep schedules to be prepared to work in Pacific Time
- Submit your Medium Profiles today (see [onboarding doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xI4QYg3TO-IBjPB3LlE33yRzWC-B8Dir-cnMAl-ZaSE/edit?usp=sharing) for link)

### Optional (if you finish the above work, choose what you're interested in next!)

- [Vim Adventures](https://vim-adventures.com/)
- HTML and CSS: [https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/ud001](https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/ud001) (5 hours class)
- Try to build your own very simple HTML - CSS website. Here are some resources.
  - [https://www.udemy.com/course/html-css-and-javascript-the-complete-web-developer-course/ ](https://www.udemy.com/course/html-css-and-javascript-the-complete-web-developer-course/)
  - [https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-html](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-html)
- See if your local library offers free online learning resources (for example [this link for the Seattle Library](https://www.spl.org/online-resources/online-learning)) -it’s very possible that you have access to free resources to learn code if your local library has this option.

### Be sure to [RSVP](https://www.eventbrite.com/o/techtonica-11297022451) for your study group sessions to work through your pre-work materials.
