career/interviewing/negotiating.md, before:

# Negotiating

### Projected Time

60 - 80 minutes total

- 20-30 min - Lesson Slideshow
- 10 min - Role Play
- 30 min - Independent Practice

### Prerequisites

- [Confidence!](/professionalism/building-confidence.md)

### Objectives

**Participants will be able to:**

- Know what to avoid while negotiating
- Understand why negotiating makes a difference
- Know negotiable topics besides base salary
- Have a toolkit of things to say to recruiters

### Specific Things to Learn

1. Why You Should Negotiate
2. Do Your Research
3. Managing The Process & Recruiters
4. Offer Letters Demystified
5. Role-playing!

### Motivation

- Small salary differences result in dramatic pay gaps over time
- Negotiating is a tool that can be applied to career growth opportunities: - Higher visibility projects - Skills training - Raises/Promotions
- This conversation will likely only be 3-10 minutes, and you could get thousands more!

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

**I'm afraid they will feel negatively towards me, or rescind the offer if I ask for too much.**

- Recruiters are expecting this conversation, and you have almost nothing to lose if you are reasonable and polite. In the VERY UNLIKELY case that they do rescind the offer, this is a very big RED FLAG for that company, and you are probably better off not working there.

**Negotiation “DO-NOT-DO” List:**

- Give a salary expectation number
- Give up leverage (e.g. expressing positivity about the
  number offered)
- Accept offer right away

### Lesson

Review the [lesson slideshow.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Wfs7So04uwRLC042pX7OlUvzp92OJ8va/view?usp=sharing)

### Independent Practice

Look over the resources on the Supplemental Resources section for 30 minutes. Watch videos at a higher speed if possible.

### Check for Understanding

Form small groups and discuss the following questions:

- What shouldn't you do when negotiating with a potential employer? For each answer you provide explain why it is inappropriate to discuss during a negotiation.
- Explain why negotating actually makes a difference.
- What are some topics other than salary ranges that you can talk about with a potential employer during negotiation?
- List some common topics you should always bring up to recruiters and HR employees.

**Role Playing**

- Split into pairs. What month were you born? The partner born later in the year will be the employer, and the partner born in the earlier month will be the interviewee. Using the info on the "Role Playing" slide, and practice your negotiating skills.
- After 5 minutes, find another pair, and have the interviewees swap places. Now that you have a new partner, switch roles so everyone has a chance to be the employer for 5 min and the interviewee for 5 min.

### Supplemental Resources

- [Article (30 min read): Ten Rules for Negotiating a Job Offer](https://haseebq.com/my-ten-rules-for-negotiating-a-job-offer/)
- [Article (30 min read): How not to bomb your offer negotation](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-not-to-bomb-your-offer-negotiation-c46bb9bc7dea)
- [Exactly what to say when recruiters ask you to name the first number . . . and other negotiation word-for-words](http://blog.interviewing.io/exactly-what-to-say-when-recruiters-ask-you-to-name-the-first-number/) 
- [Udacity/Michelle Lai: Negotiating your Engineering Offers (1 hour webinar)](https://youtu.be/jOBbb1ly4vo) 
- [How to Start A Job Offer Negotiation WITHOUT LOSING MONEY - 5 Steps!](https://youtu.be/HrLfOBoAhu0) 
- [Salary Negotiation: How to Ask When You Don't Have Leverage](https://youtu.be/OHgHX6ULELI) 
- [Top 3 Ways People Fail At Negotiation (and tips on how to fix them!)](https://youtu.be/WWc_xF18FTw)
- [Breaking Into Startups Podcast, Episode #81](https://breakingintostartups.com/melissa-hereford-how-to-win-in-salary-negotiations/)
- Find Salary Information: - [Triplebyte](https://triplebyte.com/software-engineer-salary) - [Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/index.htm) - [levels.fyi](https://www.levels.fyi/) - ['Blind' app for iOS/Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.teamblind.blind&hl=en_US)
- Check out [The Open Guide to Equity Compensation](https://github.com/jlevy/og-equity-compensation)
- Julia Evans' [Questions you can ask about compensation](https://jvns.ca/blog/compensation-questions/)

Commit message:

add article to the doc

career/interviewing/negotiating.md, after:

# Negotiating

### Projected Time

60 - 80 minutes total

- 20-30 min - Lesson Slideshow
- 10 min - Role Play
- 30 min - Independent Practice

### Prerequisites

- [Confidence!](/professionalism/building-confidence.md)

### Objectives

**Participants will be able to:**

- Know what to avoid while negotiating
- Understand why negotiating makes a difference
- Know negotiable topics besides base salary
- Have a toolkit of things to say to recruiters

### Specific Things to Learn

1. Why You Should Negotiate
2. Do Your Research
3. Managing The Process & Recruiters
4. Offer Letters Demystified
5. Role-playing!

### Motivation

- Small salary differences result in dramatic pay gaps over time
- Negotiating is a tool that can be applied to career growth opportunities: - Higher visibility projects - Skills training - Raises/Promotions
- This conversation will likely only be 3-10 minutes, and you could get thousands more!

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

**I'm afraid they will feel negatively towards me, or rescind the offer if I ask for too much.**

- Recruiters are expecting this conversation, and you have almost nothing to lose if you are reasonable and polite. In the VERY UNLIKELY case that they do rescind the offer, this is a very big RED FLAG for that company, and you are probably better off not working there.

**Negotiation “DO-NOT-DO” List:**

- Give a salary expectation number
- Give up leverage (e.g. expressing positivity about the
  number offered)
- Accept offer right away

### Lesson

Review the [article](https://elpha.com/resources/state-of-pay-for-women-2022?utm_source=slack&utm_medium=resource&utm_campaign=state-of-pay-2022) - The State of Pay for Women in 2022

### Independent Practice

Look over the resources on the Supplemental Resources section for 30 minutes. Watch videos at a higher speed if possible.

### Check for Understanding

Form small groups and discuss the following questions:

- What shouldn't you do when negotiating with a potential employer? For each answer you provide explain why it is inappropriate to discuss during a negotiation.
- Explain why negotating actually makes a difference.
- What are some topics other than salary ranges that you can talk about with a potential employer during negotiation?
- List some common topics you should always bring up to recruiters and HR employees.

**Role Playing**

- Split into pairs. What month were you born? The partner born later in the year will be the employer, and the partner born in the earlier month will be the interviewee. Using the info on the "Role Playing" slide, and practice your negotiating skills.
- After 5 minutes, find another pair, and have the interviewees swap places. Now that you have a new partner, switch roles so everyone has a chance to be the employer for 5 min and the interviewee for 5 min.

### Supplemental Resources

- [Article (30 min read): Ten Rules for Negotiating a Job Offer](https://haseebq.com/my-ten-rules-for-negotiating-a-job-offer/)
- [Article (30 min read): How not to bomb your offer negotation](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-not-to-bomb-your-offer-negotiation-c46bb9bc7dea)
- [Exactly what to say when recruiters ask you to name the first number . . . and other negotiation word-for-words](http://blog.interviewing.io/exactly-what-to-say-when-recruiters-ask-you-to-name-the-first-number/) 
- [Udacity/Michelle Lai: Negotiating your Engineering Offers (1 hour webinar)](https://youtu.be/jOBbb1ly4vo) 
- [How to Start A Job Offer Negotiation WITHOUT LOSING MONEY - 5 Steps!](https://youtu.be/HrLfOBoAhu0) 
- [Salary Negotiation: How to Ask When You Don't Have Leverage](https://youtu.be/OHgHX6ULELI) 
- [Top 3 Ways People Fail At Negotiation (and tips on how to fix them!)](https://youtu.be/WWc_xF18FTw)
- [Breaking Into Startups Podcast, Episode #81](https://breakingintostartups.com/melissa-hereford-how-to-win-in-salary-negotiations/)
- Find Salary Information: - [Triplebyte](https://triplebyte.com/software-engineer-salary) - [Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/index.htm) - [levels.fyi](https://www.levels.fyi/) - ['Blind' app for iOS/Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.teamblind.blind&hl=en_US)
- Check out [The Open Guide to Equity Compensation](https://github.com/jlevy/og-equity-compensation)
- Julia Evans' [Questions you can ask about compensation](https://jvns.ca/blog/compensation-questions/)
