meta/false-dead-links.md, before:

# List of false "dead links"

> The following may appear in our `validate-links` script, but they are likely false positives whose URLs work fine:

api\http-request-practice.md
213:3-213:42 warning Link to https://github.com/axios/axios is dead

career\interviewing\negotiating.md
81:13-81:101 warning Link to https://github.com/jlevy/og-equity-compensation is dead

career\roles-in-tech\data-science.md
79:3-79:63 warning Link to https://www.datacamp.com is dead

career\roles-in-tech\security.md
152:76-152:173 warning Link to https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/security/glossary/what-is-penetration-testing/ is dead
194:3-194:51 warning Link to https://www.linkedin.com/in/whsaito/ is dead

career\roles-in-tech\technical-program-manager.md
123:3-123:121 warning Link to https://www.pmi.org/learning/library/roles-responsibilities-skills-program-management-6799 is dead

databases\relational-databases.md
146:11-146:105 warning Link to https://github.com/JNOSQL/artemis-demo/tree/master/artemis-demo-java-se/graph-neo4j is dead

deploying\deploying-to-heroku.md
190:117-190:183 warning Link to https://github.com/FTraian/node-express-postgresql-heroku-tutorial is dead

electives\data-visualization.md
59:16-59:79 warning Link to https://github.com/d3/d3/blob/master/CHANGES.md is dead
269:3-269:58 warning Link to https://github.com/d3/d3/wiki/Tutorials is dead

electives\mobile-development.md
83:3-83:80 warning Link to https://github.com/BohdanOrlov/iOS-Developer-Roadmap is dead

electives\mocha-testing.md
285:8-285:66 warning Link to https://github.com/mochajs/mocha/tree/master/test is dead
285:71-285:126 warning Link to https://github.com/chaijs/chai/tree/master/test is dead
296:43-296:95 warning Link to https://github.com/webdevjourneyWDJ/Todo-API is dead

electives\optimization\optimizing-your-react-node-project.md
116:12-116:73 warning Link to https://github.com/facebook/react-devtools is dead

git\github-collaboration.md
75:18-75:59 warning Link to https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/ is dead

git\github-storage.md
48:4-48:107 warning Link to https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/109311bb0361f32d87a2 is dead
**_Doesn't always load in time, but is not dead_**
**_I put a ticket into Github. There are so many comments on this page that it keeps it from loading properly a lot of the time.
I put notes in the learning material mentioning to keep trying the link if it doesn't load_**

node-js\node-lab-exercise-part-2.md
170:186-170:207 warning Link to http://127.0.0.1:3000 is dead
170:264-170:285 warning Link to http://localhost:3000 is dead
268:48-268:69 warning Link to http://localhost:3000 is dead
**_Localhost Links_**

onboarding\pair-programming.md
79:143-79:218 warning Link to https://codepen.io/ulfiw/pen/YQoQgx is dead

open-source\open-source.md
71:29-71:117 warning Link to https://github.com/Growstuff/growstuff is dead
71:184-71:260 warning Link to https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp is dead
71:304-71:390 warning Link to https://github.com/OperationCode/operationcode_frontend is dead
80:1-80:74 warning Link to https://github.com/OperationCode/operationcode_frontend is dead

projects\eventonica\eventonica-part3-jquery-ui.md
101:143-101:199 warning Link to https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/109311bb0361f32d87a2 is dead
**_Doesn't always load in time, but is not dead_**
**_I put a ticket into Github. There are so many comments on this page that it keeps it from loading properly a lot of the time.
I put notes in the learning material mentioning to keep trying the link if it doesn't load_**

projects\node-http-exercise\node-http-exercise.md
280:32-280:54 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/ is dead
281:32-281:58 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/test is dead
282:32-282:58 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/spin is dead
283:32-283:60 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/hangup is dead
284:32-284:58 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/head is dead
285:32-285:59 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/hello is dead
286:32-286:79 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/echo?message=Node*is_cool is dead
287:32-287:59 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/error is dead
288:32-288:63 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/time.json is dead
289:32-289:60 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/github is dead
290:32-290:67 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/anything_else is dead
\*\*\_Localhost Links*\*\*

projects\submitting-work.md
17:75-17:126 warning Link to https://github.com/YOUR-NAME/techtonica-assignments is dead
18:86-18:142 warning Link to https://github.com/SEAM/techtonica-assignments-YOUR-NAME is dead
**_Example links_**

react-js\react-part-1-intro.md
50:4-50:76 warning Link to http://codepen.io/marcacyr/pen/NAyqgX is dead
51:4-51:80 warning Link to http://codepen.io/marcacyr/pen/bZLVbj is dead
52:4-52:72 warning Link to http://codepen.io/marcacyr/pen/rLJVqR is dead
53:4-53:95 warning Link to http://codepen.io/marcacyr/pen/KrQpYb is dead
67:1-67:67 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/ExVjYBM is dead
73:1-73:67 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/xxwGKvN is dead
79:1-79:67 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/PoPqoqp is dead
90:3-90:75 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/jOPRwVm is dead
91:14-91:67 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/jOPRwVm is dead
106:3-106:75 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/jOPRwVm is dead

react-js\react-part-2-component-state.md
188:106-188:163 warning Link to https://codepen.io/ashish24_nagpal/pen/jObzXzM is dead
276:26-276:96 warning Link to https://codepen.io/ashish24_nagpal/pen/oNjyeeo?editors=1111 is dead

react-js\react-part-3-component-hierarchies.md
282:1-282:66 warning Link to https://codepen.io/annu12340/pen/dyYvVWB?editors=1010 is dead
400:4-400:57 warning Link to https://codepen.io/CandiceL/pen/MQwyYp is dead

web\ajax.md
128:50-128:107 warning Link to https://codepen.io/ashish24_nagpal/pen/NWqXjWN is dead

Commit message:

remove dead links, add to false link outline

meta/false-dead-links.md, after:

# List of false "dead links"

> The following may appear in our `validate-links` script, but they are likely false positives whose URLs work fine:

api\http-request-practice.md
213:3-213:42 warning Link to https://github.com/axios/axios is dead

agile-development/intro-to-agile.md
233:75-233:109 warning Link to http://www.agilebelgium.be/xpgame/

career\interviewing\negotiating.md
81:13-81:101 warning Link to https://github.com/jlevy/og-equity-compensation is dead

career/resume-writing.md
44:3-44:81 warning Link to https://www.jobscan.co/resume-writing-guide is dead
46:3-46:85 warning Link to https://www.jobscan.co/ is dead
93:3-93:83 warning Link to https://resumegenius.com/resume-formats is dead

career/interviewing/whiteboarding.md
114:200-114:233 warning Link to https://leetcode.com is dead

career\roles-in-tech\data-science.md
79:3-79:63 warning Link to https://www.datacamp.com is dead

career\roles-in-tech\security.md
152:76-152:173 warning Link to https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/security/glossary/what-is-penetration-testing/ is dead
194:3-194:51 warning Link to https://www.linkedin.com/in/whsaito/ is dead

career\roles-in-tech\technical-program-manager.md
123:3-123:121 warning Link to https://www.pmi.org/learning/library/roles-responsibilities-skills-program-management-6799 is dead

databases\relational-databases.md
146:11-146:105 warning Link to https://github.com/JNOSQL/artemis-demo/tree/master/artemis-demo-java-se/graph-neo4j is dead

deploying\deploying-to-heroku.md
190:117-190:183 warning Link to https://github.com/FTraian/node-express-postgresql-heroku-tutorial is dead

electives\data-visualization.md
59:16-59:79 warning Link to https://github.com/d3/d3/blob/master/CHANGES.md is dead
269:3-269:58 warning Link to https://github.com/d3/d3/wiki/Tutorials is dead

electives\mobile-development.md
83:3-83:80 warning Link to https://github.com/BohdanOrlov/iOS-Developer-Roadmap is dead

electives\mocha-testing.md
285:8-285:66 warning Link to https://github.com/mochajs/mocha/tree/master/test is dead
285:71-285:126 warning Link to https://github.com/chaijs/chai/tree/master/test is dead
296:43-296:95 warning Link to https://github.com/webdevjourneyWDJ/Todo-API is dead

electives\optimization\optimizing-your-react-node-project.md
116:12-116:73 warning Link to https://github.com/facebook/react-devtools is dead

git\github-collaboration.md
75:18-75:59 warning Link to https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/ is dead

git\github-storage.md
48:4-48:107 warning Link to https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/109311bb0361f32d87a2 is dead
**_Doesn't always load in time, but is not dead_**
**_I put a ticket into Github. There are so many comments on this page that it keeps it from loading properly a lot of the time.
I put notes in the learning material mentioning to keep trying the link if it doesn't load_**

node-js\node-lab-exercise-part-2.md
170:186-170:207 warning Link to http://127.0.0.1:3000 is dead
170:264-170:285 warning Link to http://localhost:3000 is dead
268:48-268:69 warning Link to http://localhost:3000 is dead
**_Localhost Links_**

onboarding\pair-programming.md
79:143-79:218 warning Link to https://codepen.io/ulfiw/pen/YQoQgx is dead

open-source\open-source.md
71:29-71:117 warning Link to https://github.com/Growstuff/growstuff is dead
71:184-71:260 warning Link to https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp is dead
71:304-71:390 warning Link to https://github.com/OperationCode/operationcode_frontend is dead
80:1-80:74 warning Link to https://github.com/OperationCode/operationcode_frontend is dead

projects\eventonica\eventonica-part3-jquery-ui.md
101:143-101:199 warning Link to https://gist.github.com/PurpleBooth/109311bb0361f32d87a2 is dead
**_Doesn't always load in time, but is not dead_**
**_I put a ticket into Github. There are so many comments on this page that it keeps it from loading properly a lot of the time.
I put notes in the learning material mentioning to keep trying the link if it doesn't load_**

projects\node-http-exercise\node-http-exercise.md
280:32-280:54 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/ is dead
281:32-281:58 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/test is dead
282:32-282:58 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/spin is dead
283:32-283:60 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/hangup is dead
284:32-284:58 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/head is dead
285:32-285:59 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/hello is dead
286:32-286:79 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/echo?message=Node*is_cool is dead
287:32-287:59 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/error is dead
288:32-288:63 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/time.json is dead
289:32-289:60 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/github is dead
290:32-290:67 warning Link to http://localhost:5000/anything_else is dead
\*\*\_Localhost Links*\*\*

projects\submitting-work.md
17:75-17:126 warning Link to https://github.com/YOUR-NAME/techtonica-assignments is dead
18:86-18:142 warning Link to https://github.com/SEAM/techtonica-assignments-YOUR-NAME is dead
**_Example links_**

react-js\react-part-1-intro.md
50:4-50:76 warning Link to http://codepen.io/marcacyr/pen/NAyqgX is dead
51:4-51:80 warning Link to http://codepen.io/marcacyr/pen/bZLVbj is dead
52:4-52:72 warning Link to http://codepen.io/marcacyr/pen/rLJVqR is dead
53:4-53:95 warning Link to http://codepen.io/marcacyr/pen/KrQpYb is dead
67:1-67:67 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/ExVjYBM is dead
73:1-73:67 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/xxwGKvN is dead
79:1-79:67 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/PoPqoqp is dead
90:3-90:75 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/jOPRwVm is dead
91:14-91:67 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/jOPRwVm is dead
106:3-106:75 warning Link to https://codepen.io/jamesjose03/pen/jOPRwVm is dead

react-js\react-part-2-component-state.md
188:106-188:163 warning Link to https://codepen.io/ashish24_nagpal/pen/jObzXzM is dead
276:26-276:96 warning Link to https://codepen.io/ashish24_nagpal/pen/oNjyeeo?editors=1111 is dead

react-js\react-part-3-component-hierarchies.md
282:1-282:66 warning Link to https://codepen.io/annu12340/pen/dyYvVWB?editors=1010 is dead
400:4-400:57 warning Link to https://codepen.io/CandiceL/pen/MQwyYp is dead

algorithms/sorting.md
29:3-29:89 warning Link to https://www.toptal.com/developers/sorting-algorithms/ is dead  
263:1-263:54 warning Link to https://www.toptal.com/developers/sorting-algorithms/ is dead

web\ajax.md
128:50-128:107 warning Link to https://codepen.io/ashish24_nagpal/pen/NWqXjWN is dead
