# Assessment 11 Objectives
[Assessment Outline: Data Structures](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/tree/master/projects/data-structures-algorithms-assessment.md)


## Stacks
Explain what a stack data structure is and show how it is implemented.

## Queues
Understand when to use a queue
Be familiar with common methods
Implement a queue
Find and use a queue library
Discern performance tradeoffs for different implementations of a queue

## Deque
Understand when to use a deque
Be familiar with common methods
Implement a deque
Find and use a deque library
Discern performance tradeoffs for different implementations of a deque

## Linked Lists
Implement various types of linked lists.
Understand which portions of linked lists are already implemented in JavaScript.
Implement their own linked lists under the correct circumstances.

## Hash Table
Understand basic hashing algorithms
Know the runtime of hash table operations
Be able to identify problems where hash tables could be used
Be able to write code that uses hash tables to solve problems
Understand how hash tables are implemented and how this implementation leads to the runtime properties


## Trees
identify, implement and differentiate:
trees
binary tree traversal
binary heaps
tries

## Intro to Algorithms
Understand what an algorithm is.
Understanding what a sorting algorithm is.
Understand the mechanics of a few sorting algorithms including Bubble Sort, Merge Sort, and Quick Sort.
Understand the Runtime Complexity of these algorithms.
Understand how linear and binary search work
Understand the runtime of linear and binary search
Know when to use linear and binary search
