projects/final-project/README.md, before:

# Final Project

You did it! You learned all the pieces of the full stack and now it's time for you to put it all together to make an app of your own!

## Goals of the Final Project

In order of importance:

1. Demo in front of sponsor companies - memorable part of [your brand](../personal-brand/personal-branding.md)
1. Create something all your own (for your porfolio, to discuss in interviews)
1. Practice how to breakdown an idea into small, achievable chunks (a critical part of being an engineer)

### These are Explicitly _Not_ Goals of the Final Project

1. Prove you learned framework X, Y, Z (that's what the assessments are for)
1. To learn a new language or framework (although you can, this will eat into time to develop features)

### Requirements
The following items must be utilized for or included in your final project.

**Tools**
- [ ] Chrome Developer Tools
- [ ] VS Code
- [ ] TDD (Jasmine)
- [ ] Scrum
- [ ] Terminal
- [ ] Git
- [ ] GitHub

**Languages**
- [ ] JavaScript
  - [ ] RegEx
  - [ ] Datetime
  - [ ] Objects
  - [ ] Arrays
  - [ ] Functions
  - [ ] Conditionals
  - [ ] For and while loops
  - [ ] AJAX
- [ ] HTML
- [ ] CSS

**Libraries & Frameworks**
- [ ] React
- [ ] Bootstrap
- [ ] Express
- [ ] Node
- [ ] PostgreSQL
- [ ] Any additional **electives** you completed that make sense to include.  If it replaces some of the above requirements, be clear in your proposal and planning that this is the case.

**Other**
- [ ] Use GitHub issues and milestones to manage your progress.
- [ ] Comment your code.
- [ ] Use UI/UX design best practices.
- [ ] Use an external API of your choice with at least three calls.
- [ ] Use one of the data structures and algorithms covered (bonus if it's not one you presented!).
- [ ] Request code reviews at least once per week and incorporate constructive feedback.
- [ ] Make sure your app is good for web and mobile (start with mobile responsive and use media queries and Flexbox).
- [ ] Include basic web accessibility. A people should have no trouble with visual contrast, using zoom to magnify content, or navigating via screenreader or keyboard.

### Schedule
Having a schedule and effectively managing your time is extremely important. The details below should give you the initial structure you need to formulate an effective schedule as you build your final project. As always, the details could change and it is your responsibility to make note of changes announced in person or via Slack or email. Expect a scattering of guest speakers and volunteers.

Because final projects are complex and we want you to have time to make a basic-but-polished project that will work nicely for your personal portfolio, it's important to stick with the deadlines provided. 

**Daily Template**
1. Welcome, any announcements
2. Scrum
3. Work on projects
4. Lunch
5. Work on projects
6. Wrap-up
7. Work on projects, check in with mentors, attend events

### Week 1 Milestones

- [ ] [Selecting Your Project](./selecting-your-project.md)—brainstorm ideas, check feasibility, and select one to build.
- [ ] [Planning Your Project](./planning-your-project.md)—plan and receive approval on your final project's:
    - [ ] MVP
    - [ ] One-sentence pitch
    - [ ] Features
    - [ ] User flows
    - [ ] Wireframes
    - [ ] Style guide
    - [ ] Data model
    - [ ] Prioritization
- [ ] Give your project a title and create a GitHub repository with a description and a README that includes a project description, keys needed (but not the keys themselves or any other private information!), installation instructions, data, and anything else needed to get your code running and understand the goals of the project. [Here's a great past final project README](https://github.com/Reginatam429/WhatsInMyFridgeApp).
- [ ] Create, successfully serve, and push your initial project files.
- [ ] Create a Google Doc with your name in both titles, the name of your project, the GitHub link, and all of the items in the "Planning Your Project" list above. Share with facilitators, mentors, and other participants. 
- [ ] Invite your mentor to be a collaborator on your project's GitHub repo.

### Week 2 Milestones

- [ ] Start with the main feature.
- [ ] Set up your database and migration scripts.
- [ ] Retrieve and test your data.
- [ ] Re-scope if needed.
- [ ] Have a code review.

### Week 3 Milestones

- [ ] Complete all primary features.
- [ ] Get OAuth 2 working.
- [ ] Have a code review.

### Week 4 Milestones
- [ ] Make a "complete_mvp" branch.
- [ ] Create your tests (unit and integration, if possible!).
- [ ] Build any nice-to-have/secondary features you have time for.
- [ ] Start on the visual design.
- [ ] Prepare your personal pitch and project demo (<3 minutes).
- [ ] Have a code review.

### Week 5 Milestones
- [ ] Stop building any new features (feature freeze).
- [ ] Polish the visual design and check for accessibility and UI/UX best practices.
- [ ] Practice your personal pitch and project demo (<3 minutes).
- [ ] Have a code review.
- [ ] Refactor your code.
- [ ] Clarify your code comments.
- [ ] Deploy so your project is on the web, if possible.
- [ ] Add setup instructions to your repo's README, and make any updates so it reflects the current state of the app. Don't forget a screenshot!
- [ ] Check that your variable and function names are self-explanatory. 

## Prep Work

Before brainstorming ideas, it is helpful to think of your personal aim for the project, what is the most important aspect of it, unrelated to the problem your app solves.

### Questions to Ask Yourself

- What is your "specialty"? Ex. Do you love or hate CSS?
- What was your favorite technology to learn this cohort?
- What is something you _wanted to learn_ but we didn't cover?

## FAQ

#### Does my project have to be a PERN stack app?

Nope. It can be any type of software deliverable. In fact, choosing something else might make your project more memorable in demos because it wouldn't be "just another web app."

However, the reason we encourage sticking to the default PERN stack is that following that means you'll have a lot more tech help around you than you otherwise would. If you want to pursue an alternate tech stack, just make sure you have a bare minimum of **two committed tech mentors** (e.g. the SEAM and your mentor) that have enough experience in the stack to help if you get stuck (and time to meet with you).

#### The more buzzwords my app uses the better, right?

Definitely not! The more [shiny things](https://tstoaddicts.files.wordpress.com/2015/03/thehomer.png?w=538&h=456) you add into your app, the more time you'll spend learning about them and debugging them, rather than building actual features. Usually, simple is best. If in doubt, discuss the right balance with your mentor or the SEAM.

### Other Tips

- The goal is not to build a perfect app or company; questions about your app will be more about the process than the features.
- Projects are easiest when you've broken them down into the smallest tasks possible.
- Prioritize relentlessly.
- When you get stuck, first try to outline what you've done so far, what results you've gotten, and what exactly you're trying to do. If that doesn't help you come up with more things to try, show that outline to someone and ask for help.
- Beware of "feature creep." Don't let anyone pressure you to immediately add features beyond your MVP—thank them and maybe write down notes for "some day."
- Never push sensitive data (like API keys) to public repositories.
- Set deadlines for how long you have to get something working and stick to them.
- You can always learn more later—keep yourself from going too deep into a technology that isn't directly necessary for your MVP.
- Make a new branch with each week's changes and submit a pull request with any questions to simplify code reviews.
- Don't compare yourself to others. Don't be hard on yourself about not knowing everything yet. The important thing is to show you can learn.
- Make your UI purposefully basic and ugly at first so you can focus on features
- Commit your changes often and push to GitHub _at least_ a 4 times per day (10:00am, Lunch Break, 3:00pm, Before Wrap-up)—you should have at least 50 commits showing on your project day (closer to 200 is better) by the end of the project.
- Take care of yourself—take breaks, get sleep, eat three meals, drink enough liquids, etc.
- Check in with mentors, volunteers, other participants, and #tech-help often, and don't be afraid to ask someone while they're still helping someone else so they know you need help next.

Commit message:

docs(final-proj): start Trello instructions

projects/final-project/README.md, after:

# Final Project

You did it! You learned all the pieces of the full stack and now it's time for you to put it all together to make an app of your own!

## Goals of the Final Project

In order of importance:

1. Demo in front of sponsor companies - memorable part of [your brand](../personal-brand/personal-branding.md)
1. Create something all your own (for your porfolio, to discuss in interviews)
1. Practice how to breakdown an idea into small, achievable chunks (a critical part of being an engineer)

### These are Explicitly _Not_ Goals of the Final Project

1. Prove you learned framework X, Y, Z (that's what the assessments are for)
1. To learn a new language or framework (although you can, this will eat into time to develop features)

### Requirements
The following items must be utilized for or included in your final project.

**Tools**
- [ ] Chrome Developer Tools
- [ ] VS Code
- [ ] TDD (Jasmine)
- [ ] Scrum
- [ ] Terminal
- [ ] Git
- [ ] GitHub

**Languages**
- [ ] JavaScript
  - [ ] RegEx
  - [ ] Datetime
  - [ ] Objects
  - [ ] Arrays
  - [ ] Functions
  - [ ] Conditionals
  - [ ] For and while loops
  - [ ] AJAX
- [ ] HTML
- [ ] CSS

**Libraries & Frameworks**
- [ ] React
- [ ] Bootstrap
- [ ] Express
- [ ] Node
- [ ] PostgreSQL
- [ ] Any additional **electives** you completed that make sense to include.  If it replaces some of the above requirements, be clear in your proposal and planning that this is the case.

**Other**
- [ ] Use GitHub issues and milestones to manage your progress.
- [ ] Comment your code.
- [ ] Use UI/UX design best practices.
- [ ] Use an external API of your choice with at least three calls.
- [ ] Use one of the data structures and algorithms covered (bonus if it's not one you presented!).
- [ ] Request code reviews at least once per week and incorporate constructive feedback.
- [ ] Make sure your app is good for web and mobile (start with mobile responsive and use media queries and Flexbox).
- [ ] Include basic web accessibility. A people should have no trouble with visual contrast, using zoom to magnify content, or navigating via screenreader or keyboard.

### Schedule
Having a schedule and effectively managing your time is extremely important. The details below should give you the initial structure you need to formulate an effective schedule as you build your final project. As always, the details could change and it is your responsibility to make note of changes announced in person or via Slack or email. Expect a scattering of guest speakers and volunteers.

Because final projects are complex and we want you to have time to make a basic-but-polished project that will work nicely for your personal portfolio, it's important to stick with the deadlines provided.

**Daily Template**
1. Welcome, any announcements
2. Scrum
3. Work on projects
4. Lunch
5. Work on projects
6. Wrap-up
7. Work on projects, check in with mentors, attend events

### Week 0: Personal Organization Milestones
- [ ] Create a kanban board for your tasks on [Trello](https://trello.com). See [this doc](.kanban-board-tips) for details.

### Week 1 Milestones

- [ ] [Selecting Your Project](./selecting-your-project.md)—brainstorm ideas, check feasibility, and select one to build.
- [ ] [Planning Your Project](./planning-your-project.md)—plan and receive approval on your final project's:
    - [ ] MVP
    - [ ] One-sentence pitch
    - [ ] Features
    - [ ] User flows
    - [ ] Wireframes
    - [ ] Style guide
    - [ ] Data model
    - [ ] Prioritization
- [ ] Give your project a title and create a GitHub repository with a description and a README that includes a project description, keys needed (but not the keys themselves or any other private information!), installation instructions, data, and anything else needed to get your code running and understand the goals of the project. [Here's a great past final project README](https://github.com/Reginatam429/WhatsInMyFridgeApp).
- [ ] Create, successfully serve, and push your initial project files.
- [ ] Create a Google Doc with your name in both titles, the name of your project, the GitHub link, and all of the items in the "Planning Your Project" list above. Share with facilitators, mentors, and other participants.
- [ ] Invite your mentor to be a collaborator on your project's GitHub repo.

### Week 2 Milestones

- [ ] Start with the main feature.
- [ ] Set up your database and migration scripts.
- [ ] Retrieve and test your data.
- [ ] Re-scope if needed.
- [ ] Have a code review.

### Week 3 Milestones

- [ ] Complete all primary features.
- [ ] Get OAuth 2 working.
- [ ] Have a code review.

### Week 4 Milestones
- [ ] Make a "complete_mvp" branch.
- [ ] Create your tests (unit and integration, if possible!).
- [ ] Build any nice-to-have/secondary features you have time for.
- [ ] Start on the visual design.
- [ ] Prepare your personal pitch and project demo (<3 minutes).
- [ ] Have a code review.

### Week 5 Milestones
- [ ] Stop building any new features (feature freeze).
- [ ] Polish the visual design and check for accessibility and UI/UX best practices.
- [ ] Practice your personal pitch and project demo (<3 minutes).
- [ ] Have a code review.
- [ ] Refactor your code.
- [ ] Clarify your code comments.
- [ ] Deploy so your project is on the web, if possible.
- [ ] Add setup instructions to your repo's README, and make any updates so it reflects the current state of the app. Don't forget a screenshot!
- [ ] Check that your variable and function names are self-explanatory.

## Prep Work

Before brainstorming ideas, it is helpful to think of your personal aim for the project, what is the most important aspect of it, unrelated to the problem your app solves.

### Questions to Ask Yourself

- What is your "specialty"? Ex. Do you love or hate CSS?
- What was your favorite technology to learn this cohort?
- What is something you _wanted to learn_ but we didn't cover?

## FAQ

#### Does my project have to be a PERN stack app?

Nope. It can be any type of software deliverable. In fact, choosing something else might make your project more memorable in demos because it wouldn't be "just another web app."

However, the reason we encourage sticking to the default PERN stack is that following that means you'll have a lot more tech help around you than you otherwise would. If you want to pursue an alternate tech stack, just make sure you have a bare minimum of **two committed tech mentors** (e.g. the SEAM and your mentor) that have enough experience in the stack to help if you get stuck (and time to meet with you).

#### The more buzzwords my app uses the better, right?

Definitely not! The more [shiny things](https://tstoaddicts.files.wordpress.com/2015/03/thehomer.png?w=538&h=456) you add into your app, the more time you'll spend learning about them and debugging them, rather than building actual features. Usually, simple is best. If in doubt, discuss the right balance with your mentor or the SEAM.

### Other Tips

- The goal is not to build a perfect app or company; questions about your app will be more about the process than the features.
- Projects are easiest when you've broken them down into the smallest tasks possible.
- Prioritize relentlessly.
- When you get stuck, first try to outline what you've done so far, what results you've gotten, and what exactly you're trying to do. If that doesn't help you come up with more things to try, show that outline to someone and ask for help.
- Beware of "feature creep." Don't let anyone pressure you to immediately add features beyond your MVP—thank them and maybe write down notes for "some day."
- Never push sensitive data (like API keys) to public repositories.
- Set deadlines for how long you have to get something working and stick to them.
- You can always learn more later—keep yourself from going too deep into a technology that isn't directly necessary for your MVP.
- Make a new branch with each week's changes and submit a pull request with any questions to simplify code reviews.
- Don't compare yourself to others. Don't be hard on yourself about not knowing everything yet. The important thing is to show you can learn.
- Make your UI purposefully basic and ugly at first so you can focus on features
- Commit your changes often and push to GitHub _at least_ a 4 times per day (10:00am, Lunch Break, 3:00pm, Before Wrap-up)—you should have at least 50 commits showing on your project day (closer to 200 is better) by the end of the project.
- Take care of yourself—take breaks, get sleep, eat three meals, drink enough liquids, etc.
- Check in with mentors, volunteers, other participants, and #tech-help often, and don't be afraid to ask someone while they're still helping someone else so they know you need help next.
