# Assessment 0 Objectives

**** idea: short essay format in vim, email it to michelle

### Bash Profile:
- [x] Export environmental variables to make them always available when they open a terminal shell.
- [x] Add a file to the $PATH environmental variable.
- [x] Change the terminal prompt
- [x] Create an alias
**** send small screenshot to prove you've changed the terminal and added 1 alias

### vim
- [x] Open up a file in the Vim editor
- [x] Navigate around within a file
- [x] Make basic changes
- [x] Save changes made to a file
- [x] Exit the editor (with or without saving changes)
- [x] Understand the difference between insert and command mode, and how to switch between them.
- [x] Understand some of the basic structure of how editing commands work
- [x] Use the help feature to learn more

### Professionalism
- [x] Understand what is meant by "professionalism"
- [x] Understand why professionalism is important both at Techtonica and in a work setting
- [x] Understand what behaviors are expected of a professional
- [x] Understand what accepted standards of professionalism are

### Learning How to Learn:
- [X] Their own learning style(s)
- [X] How to fix new information in their minds
What the Growth Mindset is and how to practice it

### operating systems
- [x] Which two things does the operating system interact with?
- [x] Describe the managers used by the OS to carry out tasks.
- [x] Which OS are you using right now?  Name two other popular operating systems.

### Asking Good Questions:
- [x] How software engineers learn on the job
- [x] What resources are available to software engineers for getting "unstuck"
- [x] How software engineers ask questions when they need help

### Networking

- [x] Comfortably meet new people and start conversations, online and in-person, even as introverts
- [x] Connect with people after meeting
- [x] Ask for what you need
- [x] Nurture and build your network

### Interpersonal Conflict resolution
- [x] effective body language *** explain importance and examples
- [x] Effective choice of words *** explain importance and examples
- [x] How to build trust among teams *** ?

### How the internet works
- [x] How are the devices on the internet physically connected to each other?
- [x] How is information physically transmitted from device to device?
- [x] How does one device find another it’s trying to communicate with?
- [x] What methods do devices on the internet use to communicate?
- [x] How can we send data reliably even if the network is unreliable?
