code-challenges/README.md, before:

Participants will be provided a prompted code-challenge. Work on it for 20 minutes! Your code challenge block will be used to go over any questions you may have. Every week you will [screen record](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LWUXCqAlOBhyhp5Mg5bkB-78O64tPztU5miDOMQ_unM/edit?usp=sharing) a single code-challenge in addition to your [Yoodli](https://yoodli.ai/) core skills review. That’s two recordings each week! You will receive feedback at the beginning of the following week.

🎗️ **Reminder:** any stated challenges in your code problems should be after-thoughts - you can begin to apply the challenge once you’ve already solved the main challenge objective(s).

⚠️ Remember, the purpose of this exercise is to get you comfortable with technical interviews - you should be solving your problem for the first time while on the recording! Even if it's a [brute force solution](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/brute-force-approach-and-its-pros-and-cons/).

Lastly, for your core skills mock interviews, challenge yourself to not have scripted answers! Do NOT write your answers down and read them off. You can definitely go through the exercise of practicing answering questions, but then put those written answers away while you are interviewing. In most real world interviews, you won't always have the chance to write your answers out in advance of an interview. Challenge yourself to answer these questions in the moment so that you can really practice what it's like to organically collect your thoughts and think on the spot! That said, you can have your two employer questions written down. In fact, it is good practice to have a list of questions to ask the interviewer; you are thinking through which questions to ask, to develop your list!

### 💡 Mondays will be used to review feedback

Mondays will be used to review the feedback of your recorded session from the previous week. Consider and rework your answers to incorporate any actionable changes.

### 🧠 How to Solve Code Challenges

Review the [lesson](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/solving-coding-challenges/solving-coding-challenges.md) on how to address problem-solving technical questions. Practice in your own time with this code challenge.

### 🎦 Recorded Interviews (Weeks 1 - 8)

Each Wednesday you will record your code challenge and core skills interviews, and add it into your “Growth Feedback” sheet. That’s two recordings each week! You will receive feedback at the beginning of the following week.

If you are using resources while on your recorded interview, be sure you are sharing your screen with the interviewer and including them in on your research - this is another part of including them in on your thought process.

### 💬 Mock Interviews & Optional Recorded Interviews (Weeks 9 - 18)

In the coming weeks, you will focus on using less resources to problem solve, you won't always be able to use google or external resources when interviewing. If it is unclear to you at the time of interviewing, that is something that you should explicitly ask. A major part of these technical interviews, beyond knowing how to code and having methods memorized, is showing that you can communicate - so walk through your thought processes and share them with the interviewer.

## Resources:

- 🌐 [Edabit](https://edabit.com/challenges)
- 🌐 [codewars](https://www.codewars.com/)
- 🤓 [Solving Code Challenges](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/solving-coding-challenges/solving-coding-challenges.md)
- 🤓 [Solving Code Challenges](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/solving-coding-challenges/solving-coding-challenges.md)
- 🎦 [Code Challenges with volunteer Josh](https://www.dropbox.com/s/melhqq8j1gwvl1z/video1849801289.mp4?dl=0)
- 🎦 [Code Challenges with volunteer Alex Jeng](https://www.dropbox.com/s/se02tu2yabmfks8/video1691407495.mp4?dl=0)
- 🎦 [Tackle the Coding Interview](https://www.dropbox.com/s/nb34vrf0tb99goi/video1554065253.mp4?dl=0)

Commit message:

docs: Update README for live code challenges

code-challenges/README.md, after:

Participants will be provided a prompted code-challenge. Work on it for 20 minutes! Your code challenge block will be used to go over any questions you may have. Every week you will [screen record](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LWUXCqAlOBhyhp5Mg5bkB-78O64tPztU5miDOMQ_unM/edit?usp=sharing) a single code-challenge in addition to your [Yoodli](https://yoodli.ai/) core skills review. That’s two recordings each week! You will receive feedback at the beginning of the following week.

🎗️ **Reminder:** any stated challenges in your code problems should be after-thoughts - you can begin to apply the challenge once you’ve already solved the main challenge objective(s).

⚠️ Remember, the purpose of this exercise is to get you comfortable with technical interviews - you should be solving your problem for the first time while on the recording! Even if it's a [brute force solution](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/brute-force-approach-and-its-pros-and-cons/).

Lastly, for your core skills mock interviews, challenge yourself to not have scripted answers! Do NOT write your answers down and read them off. You can definitely go through the exercise of practicing answering questions, but then put those written answers away while you are interviewing. In most real world interviews, you won't always have the chance to write your answers out in advance of an interview. Challenge yourself to answer these questions in the moment so that you can really practice what it's like to organically collect your thoughts and think on the spot! That said, you can have your two employer questions written down. In fact, it is good practice to have a list of questions to ask the interviewer; you are thinking through which questions to ask, to develop your list!

### 💡 Mondays will be used to review feedback

Mondays will be used to review the feedback of your recorded session from the previous week. Consider and rework your answers to incorporate any actionable changes.

### 🧠 How to Solve Code Challenges

Review the [lesson](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/solving-coding-challenges/solving-coding-challenges.md) on how to address problem-solving technical questions. Practice in your own time with this code challenge.

### 🧑‍💻 Live Weekly Code Challenges

To better assess who needs technical support and intervention earlier in the program, we are shifting to live weekly code challenges with program staff. This will provide a more interactive and supportive environment for your learning.

### Protocol for Live Sessions

1.  **Preparation**: Review the week's materials and come prepared with questions.
2.  **Joining the Session**: A link to the session will be provided in Slack each week.
3.  **Participation**: Be ready to share your screen and walk through your code. This is a safe space to learn and make mistakes.
4.  **Feedback**: You will receive real-time feedback from staff during the session.

## Resources:

- 🌐 [Edabit](https://edabit.com/challenges)
- 🌐 [codewars](https://www.codewars.com/)
- 🤓 [Solving Code Challenges](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/solving-coding-challenges/solving-coding-challenges.md)
- 🤓 [Solving Code Challenges](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/blob/main/solving-coding-challenges/solving-coding-challenges.md)
- 🎦 [Code Challenges with volunteer Josh](https://www.dropbox.com/s/melhqq8j1gwvl1z/video1849801289.mp4?dl=0)
- 🎦 [Code Challenges with volunteer Alex Jeng](https://www.dropbox.com/s/se02tu2yabmfks8/video1691407495.mp4?dl=0)
- 🎦 [Tackle the Coding Interview](https://www.dropbox.com/s/nb34vrf0tb99goi/video1554065253.mp4?dl=0)
