projects/eventonica-react/eventonica-express-backend.md, before:

# Eventonica - Express API

### Overview

Up until now in your Eventonica project, all the data is deleted every time you refresh the page (unless you've added localStorage) and you can't have multiple users of your app share data. That's because the data you're storing is stored in your web browser. In this part of the Eventonica project, we'll create an Express API to store the data and serve it to all users of your site.

#### Example API Endpoint

For example, in your code before, to get all the events, you might've had a function like `app.getAllEvents()`. Instead, we will create an API endpoint like `http://127.0.0.1:3000/events` that returns all the current events as a JSON response.

#### Why is this better?

- Before, each tab had it's own copy of events. Now they can be stored in one location so all users can see the same data and interact with it
- Centralizing the logic allows us to add a database so the data will live on even if the server is restarted or crashes
- Turning the logic of our system into a REST API makes it way more flexible

  - you could call it using a non-JavaScript client such as Postman or an app written in a different language (like an Android app in Java). All modern languages speak HTTP.

So let's get to it!

### Instructions

The following directions are an adaptation of [this freeCodeCamp tutorial](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/create-a-react-frontend-a-node-express-backend-and-connect-them-together-c5798926047c/), but changed to suit our Eventonica project.

#### Create a new Express App

1. In your terminal, navigate to your `eventonica-react` project.  Start it with `npm start`.

1. You will need to create a second app for your Express backend.  In a second terminal window, navigate to your general Techtonica project folder.  Follow these commands to create a new project called `eventonica-api` and start it.  If it asks you if you want to download `express-generator`, choose `yes`.
  ```
  npx express-generator eventonica-api
  cd eventonica-api
  npm install
  npm start
  ```

1. Did you get a message that says?:
  ```
  ? Something is already running on port 3000. Probably:
    node ./bin/www (pid 13314)
    in /Users/al/projects/eventonica-api

  Would you like to run the app on another port instead? › (Y/n)
  ```
  Each app needs its own port if we want to run them on the same machine!  

1. To solve this problem, let's change the port for your frontend app. In `eventonica-react/package.json`, find the start script that says `    "start": "react-scripts start",`.  Change it to now say:
`"start": "PORT=8888 react-scripts start",`
  Now start your eventonica-react project again.  Go to `http://localhost:8888/` and you should see your app running on its new port.  

1. To be thorough, you should also search your `eventonica-react` project and make sure you've replaced refrences to port 3000.  I had to change `http://localhost:3000` in the README.md to `http://localhost:8888` in a few spots.

1. In your second window, you should now be able to start `eventonica-api` on port 3000 without any problems.  Open a browser window and go to `http://localhost:3000/`.  If it's working, you should see a welcome message!

1. Open `eventonica-api/routes/index.js` and find line 6 that says:
  ```
  res.render('index', { title: 'Express' });
  ```
  Change the title so it says this instead:
  ```
  res.render('index', { title: 'Our express app is working properly' });
  ```

1. Stop your `eventonica-api` app and restart.  `http://localhost:3000` should now show your new message.

#### Create a new Events route

1. Duplicate your `eventonica-api/routes/index.js` file and name it `eventonica-api/routes/events.js`. In this new file, change line 6 to say:
  ```
  res.render('index', { title: 'This is my events route.' });
  ```

1. In `eventonica-api/app.js`, add this to line 25:  `app.use("/events", eventsRouter);` You'll need to define `eventsRouter`, so add this to line 9: `var eventsRouter = require("./routes/events");`

1. Stop your `eventonica-api` app and restart.  `http://localhost:3000/events` should now show your new message: 'This is my events route.' You just made a new route!

> Note: Obviously, any other app calling `http://localhost:3000/events` would be doing it to get data, not to get a visual web page, but it's nice to have proof that things are working so far. Thanks [express-generator](http://expressjs.com/en/starter/generator.html)!

#### Access your API from your React app

1. Back in your frontend, open `eventonica-react/src/Users.js`. Add this code to be the next line right after `const Users = () => {` so that it is inside your React code block:
  ```
  const [apiResponse, setApiResponse] = useState("");

  console.log("apiResponse", apiResponse)

  const getUsers = () => {
    fetch("http://localhost:3000/users")
      .then(res => res.text())
      .then(res => setApiResponse(res))
  };

  useEffect(() => {
    getUsers(); // useEffect will run getUsers() every time this component loads, as opposed to just the first time it is rendered.
  });
  ```

1. If you look at http://localhost:8888/ or your terminal, it will probably say that `useState` and `useEffect` are not defined.  You should import these React hooks from React like this on line 1:
  ```
  import React, {useEffect, useState} from 'react';
  ```

1.  On the line after `<ul id="users-list">`, add this line: `{apiResponse}`.

1. If you visit http://localhost:8888/ and look in your User Management section.... you won't see it.  But if you look in your console, your console log should be working as expected and printing `apiResponse`.  You may be getting a `403 error: forbidden` or a `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` message. So what's the problem?

1. We need to allow cross-origin resource sharing.  By default, your Express app will block "localhost:8888" because it's not using the same domain as itself, "localhost:3000". But since you're working locally, we can disable this for now.

1. In your terminal navigate to the `eventonica-api` directory, stop your app, and install the CORS package:
`npm install --save cors`

1. In `eventonica-api/app.js`, require CORS on line 6:
  `var cors = require("cors");`
1. Now on line 22 have express use CORS:
  `app.use(cors());`

1. Restart `eventonica-api`.  If you refresh localhost:8888, you should see the response from your `/users` route!

#### Use your API data to render a users list in your React app
Now your challenge is to:
- Move your example users out of `eventonica-react/src/components/Users.jsx` and into `eventonica-api/routes/users.js` and make sure it is a single array of users.
- Have the users array be the response from http://localhost:3000/users, and make sure it renders in your frontend on localhost:8888
- Have your React Users component render users as HTML list items rather than plain text.

#### The real work

Add remaining REST API routes listed in the [project README](./README.md).  Start with your other `users` endpoints.  For example, a frontend function called `addUser()` should call http://localhost:3000/users/add
and add a user by sending JSON to your API, and the API would need a route like this:
```
router.post('/', function(req, res, next) {
  // save request data to a variable in routes/users.js

  res.send('some message about your data being saved, and a copy of that data');
});
```

-  Commit after every successful addition - that way if you get mixed up, you have a clean save point to return to.

- Use Postman to test your API routes.

- Try refreshing the page and using it in multiple browser windows. Your data is persisted in memory in Express, and will only be cleared when the app is restarted. When can the data be erased? The solution is to add a database in the next lesson.

### Express Tips & Resources

- You can use [body-parser middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/5x/api.html#req.body) to parse JSON request body data.

- If you run into a CORS error, you can use [cors middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware/cors.html) to sidestep the error for local development.

- [Handling Form Data in Express](https://www.hacksparrow.com/webdev/express/handling-processing-forms.html).

- [Express tutorial](../../express-js/express.md)

- [API Practice](../../api/http-request-practice.md)

### Challenge

- Try adding [error handling](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/error-handling.html) to one or more of your Express API's. These are useful for returning errors when API calls have missing/malformed data.

### Troubleshooting

#### When trying to make an API request, I get a CORS error

See mention of CORS above.

#### My API request gets a 404

- Check the log of your Express API server - you enabled [morgan](https://www.npmjs.com/package/morgan) logging, right? 😇
- If the request is making it there, maybe the path is wrong
- If the request is not making it there, make sure you're calling fetch with an Accept header. If you don't, it will be handled by your React app server, which does not know about your Express routes
- Your fetch calls should look something like: `fetch('/data', { headers: { "Accept": "application/json" } })` will make be sent to the configured proxy, e.g. `http://localhost:3000/data`

#### Supplemental Materials

- Example of [calling API from React component using fetch](https://reactjs.org/docs/faq-ajax.html)

_Pro Tip_ - the [morgan middleware](https://www.npmjs.com/package/morgan) is nice to log all requests to your server

#### Challenges

- Once you have your app working, it might be helpful to put all the `fetch` code for calling your API in a dedicated module, perhaps called `eventonica-api.js` and then calling it from your component

Commit message:

fix(eventonica): update language for recent Express outline changes

projects/eventonica-react/eventonica-express-backend.md, after:

# Eventonica - Express API

### Overview

Up until now in your Eventonica project, all the data is deleted every time you refresh the page (unless you've added localStorage) and you can't have multiple users of your app share data. That's because the data you're storing is stored in your web browser. In this part of the Eventonica project, we'll create an Express API to store the data and serve it to all users of your site.

#### Example API Endpoint

For example, in your code before, to get all the events, you might've had a function like `app.getAllEvents()`. Instead, we will create an API endpoint like `http://127.0.0.1:3000/events` that returns all the current events as a JSON response.

#### Why is this better?

- Before, each tab had it's own copy of events. Now they can be stored in one location so all users can see the same data and interact with it
- Centralizing the logic allows us to add a database so the data will live on even if the server is restarted or crashes
- Turning the logic of our system into a REST API makes it way more flexible

  - you could call it using a non-JavaScript client such as Postman or an app written in a different language (like an Android app in Java). All modern languages speak HTTP.

So let's get to it!

### Instructions

The following directions are an adaptation of [this freeCodeCamp tutorial](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/create-a-react-frontend-a-node-express-backend-and-connect-them-together-c5798926047c/), but changed to suit our Eventonica project.

#### Create a new Express App

1. In your terminal, navigate to your `eventonica-react` project.  Start it with `npm start`.

1. You will need to create a second app for your Express backend.  In a second terminal window, navigate to your general Techtonica project folder.  Follow these commands to create a new project called `eventonica-api` and start it.  If it asks you if you want to download `express-generator`, choose `yes`.
  ```
  npx express-generator eventonica-api
  cd eventonica-api
  npm install
  npm start
  ```

1. Did you get a message that says?:
  ```
  ? Something is already running on port 3000. Probably:
    node ./bin/www (pid 13314)
    in /Users/al/projects/eventonica-api

  Would you like to run the app on another port instead? › (Y/n)
  ```
  Each app needs its own port if we want to run them on the same machine!  

1. To solve this problem, let's change the port for your frontend app. In `eventonica-react/package.json`, find the start script that says `    "start": "react-scripts start",`.  Change it to now say:
`"start": "PORT=8888 react-scripts start",`
  Now start your eventonica-react project again.  Go to `http://localhost:8888/` and you should see your app running on its new port.  

1. To be thorough, you should also search your `eventonica-react` project and make sure you've replaced refrences to port 3000.  I had to change `http://localhost:3000` in the README.md to `http://localhost:8888` in a few spots.

1. In your second window, you should now be able to start `eventonica-api` on port 3000 without any problems.  Open a browser window and go to `http://localhost:3000/`.  If it's working, you should see a welcome message!

1. Open `eventonica-api/routes/index.js` and find line 6 that says:
  ```
  res.render('index', { title: 'Express' });
  ```
  Change the title so it says this instead:
  ```
  res.render('index', { title: 'Our express app is working properly' });
  ```

1. Stop your `eventonica-api` app and restart.  `http://localhost:3000` should now show your new message.

1. `.gitignore` your `node_modules`.  Push your project up to GitHub by creating a new repo there also called `eventonica-api`. Follow the directions on the page that include the first commit, etc.

#### Create a new Events route

1. Duplicate your `eventonica-api/routes/index.js` file and name it `eventonica-api/routes/events.js`. In this new file, change line 6 to say:
  ```
  res.render('index', { title: 'This is my events route.' });
  ```

1. In `eventonica-api/app.js`, add this to line 25:  `app.use("/events", eventsRouter);` You'll need to define `eventsRouter`, so add this to line 9: `var eventsRouter = require("./routes/events");`

1. Stop your `eventonica-api` app and restart.  `http://localhost:3000/events` should now show your new message: 'This is my events route.' You just made a new route!

> Note: Obviously, any other app calling `http://localhost:3000/events` would be doing it to get data, not to get a visual web page, but it's nice to have proof that things are working so far. Thanks [express-generator](http://expressjs.com/en/starter/generator.html)!

#### Access your API from your React app

1. Back in your frontend, open `eventonica-react/src/Users.js`. Add this code to be the next line right after `const Users = () => {` so that it is inside your React code block:
  ```
  const [apiResponse, setApiResponse] = useState("");

  console.log("apiResponse", apiResponse)

  const getUsers = () => {
    fetch("http://localhost:3000/users")
      .then(res => res.text())
      .then(res => setApiResponse(res))
  };

  useEffect(() => {
    getUsers(); // useEffect will run getUsers() every time this component loads, as opposed to just the first time it is rendered.
  });
  ```

1. If you look at http://localhost:8888/ or your terminal, it will probably say that `useState` and `useEffect` are not defined.  You should import these React hooks from React like this on line 1:
  ```
  import React, {useEffect, useState} from 'react';
  ```

1.  On the line after `<ul id="users-list">`, add this line: `{apiResponse}`.

1. If you visit http://localhost:8888/ and look in your User Management section.... you won't see it.  But if you look in your console, your console log should be working as expected and printing `apiResponse`.  You may be getting a `403 error: forbidden` or a `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` message. So what's the problem?

1. We need to allow cross-origin resource sharing.  By default, your Express app will block "localhost:8888" because it's not using the same domain as itself, "localhost:3000". But since you're working locally, we can disable this for now.

1. In your terminal navigate to the `eventonica-api` directory, stop your app, and install the CORS package:
`npm install --save cors`

1. In `eventonica-api/app.js`, require CORS on line 6:
  `var cors = require("cors");`
1. Now on line 22 have express use CORS:
  `app.use(cors());`

1. Restart `eventonica-api`.  If you refresh localhost:8888, you should see the response from your `/users` route!

#### Use your API data to render a users list in your React app
Now your challenge is to:
- Move your example users out of `eventonica-react/src/components/Users.jsx` and into `eventonica-api/routes/users.js` and make sure it is a single array of users.
- Have the users array be the response from http://localhost:3000/users, and make sure it renders in your frontend on localhost:8888
- Have your React Users component render users as HTML list items rather than plain text.

#### The real work

Add remaining REST API routes for `users` listed in the [project README](./README.md). Dont worry about `events` or `favorites` for now... you can add those after we get our database going.

`Users` now needs "add" and "delete" functionality.  For example, a frontend function called `addUser()` should make a POST request to http://localhost:3000/users/
and add a user by posting JSON with your API (which currently just saves to a variable since we have no DB), and the API would need a route like this:
```
router.post('/', function(req, res, next) {
  // save request data to a variable in routes/users.js

  res.send('some message about your data being saved, and a copy of that data');
});
```

-  Commit after every successful addition - that way if you get mixed up, you have a clean save point to return to.

- Use Postman or your preferred tool to test the API routes.

- Try refreshing the page and using it in multiple browser windows. Your data is persisted in memory in Express, and will only be cleared when the app is restarted. When can the data be saved across sessions? The solution is to add a Postgres database in the next outline.

### Express Tips & Resources

- You can use [body-parser middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/5x/api.html#req.body) to parse JSON request body data.

- If you run into a CORS error, you can use [cors middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware/cors.html) to sidestep the error for local development.

- [Handling Form Data in Express](https://www.hacksparrow.com/webdev/express/handling-processing-forms.html).

- [Express tutorial](../../express-js/express.md)

- [API Practice](../../api/http-request-practice.md)

### Challenge

- Try adding [error handling](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/error-handling.html) to one or more of your Express API's. These are useful for returning errors when API calls have missing/malformed data.

### Troubleshooting

#### When trying to make an API request, I get a CORS error

See mention of CORS above.

#### My API request gets a 404

- Check the log of your Express API server - you enabled [morgan](https://www.npmjs.com/package/morgan) logging, right? 😇
- If the request is making it there, maybe the path is wrong
- If the request is not making it there, make sure you're calling fetch with an Accept header. If you don't, it will be handled by your React app server, which does not know about your Express routes
- Your fetch calls should look something like: `fetch('/data', { headers: { "Accept": "application/json" } })` will make be sent to the configured proxy, e.g. `http://localhost:3000/data`

#### Supplemental Materials

- Example of [calling API from React component using fetch](https://reactjs.org/docs/faq-ajax.html)

_Pro Tip_ - the [morgan middleware](https://www.npmjs.com/package/morgan) is nice to log all requests to your server

#### Challenges

- Once you have your app working, it might be helpful to put all the `fetch` code for calling your API in a dedicated module, perhaps called `eventonica-api.js` and then calling it from your component
