writing-readable-code/writing-readable-code.md, before:

# Writing Readable Code

### Motivation

- Since most software engineering is done in teams, it's important that the code you write is easy for others to read. You will be expected to write easily-readable code as a software engineer.
- Readable code is beneficial to everyone. Sometimes you may have to return to a code you wrote some time ago or perhaps another engineer might have to make updates to your code. You save a considerable amount of time by writing code that will be easy to read and understand.

**Looking at an example**

- Professional engineers tend to write readable code more often than not. An example is [css-tricks](https://css-tricks.com), a popular site that teaches various skills relating to Front-end development. There are various code snippets available on the site and these code snippets are written in a manner that makes then easily readable. For example, this page on [HTML form markups](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/html/example-form-markup/) which makes it easy to understand the role of various elements being used.

### Objectives

**Participants will be able to:**

- Refactor a provided code sample to make it more readable

### Specific Things to Learn

- Legibility
- Writing descriptive, semantic variable and function names
- Using whitespace
- Using local variables well

### Lesson

- Video walkthrough of lesson slides [Writing Readable Code (11 min video)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kJU88vbUNmP9aILR61nmXdV7UDqEpuCM/view?usp=sharing)
- Read through lesson slides [Writing Readable Code](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1USOZJSzwXmSYepjwrE9r9ky_fmQ8VPE7bshjsBoDsZM/edit?usp=sharing)

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

-**"As long as my code does what it's supposed to do, it's good enough."** Functionality is very important, but it's only part of the bigger picture. Being able to easily maintain your code is important, too.

### Independent Practice

1. Using [Replit](http://www.repl.it) write a function called findMax that takes in 3 integers as parameters and returns the largest of the 3 integers.

2. Using [Replit](http://www.repl.it) write a function called bigWord that takes in a word as a string and returns True if the word has at least 10 letters and False if the word has 9 or fewer letters.

### Supplemental Materials

- [Writing Readable JavaScript (24 min video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8WF4AjM-XW8) - This talk shares the principles of writing clear, idiomatic JavaScript code, illustrated with real-world examples.

### Check for Understanding

- Why is it important to write readable code?
- How do you make your code more readable?
- If you want to assign your Birth Year to a variable which variable name would be more appropriate: `let x` or `let myBirthYear`.

Commit message:

updated grammar and some typos

writing-readable-code/writing-readable-code.md, after:

# Writing Readable Code

### Motivation

- As a software engineer, you'll work in teams where writing clear, readable code is crucial for collaboration.
- Writing clear, readable code saves time and helps everyone, whether you're revisiting your own work later or another engineer is updating it.

**Looking at an example**

- Professional engineers tend to write readable code more often than not. An example is [css-tricks](https://css-tricks.com), a popular site that teaches various skills relating to Front-end development. There are various code snippets available on the site and these code snippets are written in a manner that makes then easily readable. For example, this page on [HTML form markups](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/html/example-form-markup/) which makes it easy to understand the role of various elements being used.

### Objectives

**Participants will be able to:**

- Refactor a provided code sample to make it more readable

### Specific Things to Learn

- Legibility
- Writing descriptive, semantic variable and function names
- Using whitespace
- Using local variables well

### Lesson

- Video walkthrough of lesson slides [Writing Readable Code (11 min video)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kJU88vbUNmP9aILR61nmXdV7UDqEpuCM/view?usp=sharing)
- Read through lesson slides [Writing Readable Code](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1USOZJSzwXmSYepjwrE9r9ky_fmQ8VPE7bshjsBoDsZM/edit?usp=sharing)

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

-**"As long as my code does what it's supposed to do, it's good enough."** Functionality is very important, but it's only part of the bigger picture. Being able to easily maintain your code is important, too.

### Independent Practice

1. Using [Replit](http://www.repl.it) write a function called findMax that takes in 3 integers as parameters and returns the largest of the 3 integers.

2. Using [Replit](http://www.repl.it) write a function called bigWord that takes in a word as a string and returns True if the word has at least 10 letters and False if the word has 9 or fewer letters.

### Supplemental Materials

- [Writing Readable JavaScript (24 min video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8WF4AjM-XW8) - This talk shares the principles of writing clear, idiomatic JavaScript code, illustrated with real-world examples.

### Check for Understanding

- Why is it important to write readable code?
- How do you make your code more readable?
- If you want to assign your Birth Year to a variable which variable name would be more appropriate: `let x` or `let myBirthYear`.
