personal-brand/personal-branding.md, before:

# Developing your brand as a software developer

### Soft Skills for Week 2

- What are your personal values, and how does your personal brand reflect that?
- 3 parts of the soft skills answer:
  - Intro - a super short summary of what you will be talking about - give me the punch line right away
  - Story - only tell details that show what you did!
  - Take away “What I learned from this”, “Going forward I will always”, “The lesson I learned from this situation”...

### Prerequisites

- [GitHub account](https://github.com/)
- [Twitter (or X) account](https://twitter.com)
- [LinkedIn account](https://linkedin.com)

### Motivation

- Your personal brand is your way to distinguish yourself from others and make yourself memorable.
- Having a distinct and relevant personal brand can help employers identify you as a good fit for their open roles, or can help you build credibility with colleagues and managers as you further your career.
- It is worth the investment to think outside the box and develop a brand that will help employers get to know you.

### Objectives

- Understand importance of a personal brand when embarking on a new career
- Set up your own site or blog to start sharing your learning

### Specific Things To Learn

- Using Twitter (or X) following, tweeting, blocking, and muting
- Tips for blogging
- Tips for being social through GitHub

### Materials

- [Tutorial: create a blog on Medium](https://blog.markgrowth.com/how-to-start-a-beautiful-personal-blog-using-medium-ca6d89b7e46)- This is a guide to create a blog on Medium.

### Lesson

- Choose your lane
  - Pick something you have learned or love and go deep in explanations
  - Join a community
- Make Friends
  - Get involved on Twitter (or X) and GitHub
- Share your experience
  - Blog
  - Tweet
  - Speak

3. Control your dialogue

- Use Twitter (or X) following, tweeting, blocking.
  - We recommend using [Twitter's reply controls](https://www.socialmediatoday.com/news/twitter-rolls-out-tweet-reply-controls-to-all-users/583327/) to prevent trolls from replying to your tweets.
  - Use [Block Party](https://www.blockpartyapp.com/) to filter out unwanted @mentions from Twitter (or X), and continue to use Twitter (or X) as normal.

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

- Most new developers feel they need to be an expert at something before they can share on a topic. The irony is, there are not lots of free beginner content out there for new developer geared towards new developers and the same new developers are in the best position to teach each other today. No matter how new you are, there is someone who knows less than you and you are in the best position to teach them.

### Guided Practice

- You can add a profile README on your Github when you create a repository with a name that matches your Github username. Take a look at some [examples](https://github.com/abhisheknaiidu/awesome-github-profile-readme) and follow the [tutorials](https://github.com/abhisheknaiidu/awesome-github-profile-readme#tutorials) to set up a profile README.

### Supplemental Resources

- [templates.netlify.com](http://templates.netlify.com/) - List a variety of website templates.
- [codenewbie](https://www.codenewbie.org/) - A community for new coders that provides various resources and help, including a slack group.

### Check for Understanding

- What are the benefits of having a distinct Personal Brand?
- How do you build a Personal Brand?
- Mention some communities you would like to join.

Commit message:

[Content Update] Added new topic outlines and updated existing ones

personal-brand/personal-branding.md, after:

# Developing your brand as a software developer

### Soft Skills for Week 2

- What are your personal values, and how does your personal brand reflect that?
- 3 parts of the soft skills answer:
  - Intro - a super short summary of what you will be talking about - give me the punch line right away
  - Story - only tell details that show what you did!
  - Take away “What I learned from this”, “Going forward I will always”, “The lesson I learned from this situation”...

### Prerequisites

- [GitHub account](https://github.com/)
- [Twitter (or X) account](https://twitter.com)
- [LinkedIn account](https://linkedin.com)
- Personal Website/Portfolio (Optional but Highly Recommended)

### Motivation

- Your personal brand is your way to distinguish yourself from others and make yourself memorable.
- Having a distinct and relevant personal brand can help employers identify you as a good fit for their open roles, or can help you build credibility with colleagues and managers as you further your career.
- It is worth the investment to think outside the box and develop a brand that will help employers get to know you.

### Objectives

- Understand the importance of a personal brand when embarking on or advancing a software development career.
- Set up your own site or blog to consistently share your learning and projects.
- Identify key platforms and strategies for building visibility and credibility.

### Specific Things To Learn

- Using Twitter (or X) following, tweeting, blocking, and muting
- Tips for blogging
- Tips for being social through GitHub
- Utilizing developer-focused blogging platforms like dev.to or Hashnode.
- Basics of creating an effective personal portfolio website.
- Exploring different content formats (e.g., articles, technical threads, short videos, open-source contributions).

### Materials

- [Medium's Guide to Getting Started](https://medium.com/blogging-guide/how-to-start-a-successful-blog-on-medium-d933a29d4987) (or search for recent guides on Medium).
- [dev.to](https://dev.to/) - A community and blogging platform for software developers.
- [Hashnode](https://hashnode.com/) - A blogging platform tailored for developers, offering features like custom domains on its free tier.
- [Polywork](https://www.polywork.com/) - A professional network to showcase all types of work, projects, and collaborations.

### Lesson

- Choose your lane
  - Pick something you have learned or love and go deep in explanations
  - Join a community
  - Don't be afraid to evolve your niche as you learn and grow. Your brand is dynamic.
- Make Friends
  - Get involved on Twitter (or X) and GitHub
  - Engage in developer communities on platforms like Discord, Slack (e.g., Codenewbie's Slack), or specialized forums.
- Share your experience
  - Blog (on platforms like Medium, dev.to, Hashnode, or your personal site)
  - Tweet (and engage in meaningful conversations on X/Twitter)
  - Speak (at local meetups, online events, or even internal company talks)
  - Contribute to open-source: Fix bugs, improve documentation, or share your own projects.
  - Create and share other forms of content: e.g., code snippets, gists, short video tutorials, or a newsletter.

3. Control your dialogue

- Use Twitter (or X) following, tweeting, blocking.
  - We recommend using [Twitter's reply controls](https://www.socialmediatoday.com/news/twitter-rolls-out-tweet-reply-controls-to-all-users/583327/) to prevent trolls from replying to your tweets.
  - Use [Block Party](https://www.blockpartyapp.com/) to filter out unwanted @mentions from Twitter (or X), and continue to use Twitter (or X) as normal.

### Common Mistakes / Misconceptions

- Most new developers feel they need to be an expert at something before they can share on a topic. The irony is, there are not lots of free beginner content out there for new developer geared towards new developers and the same new developers are in the best position to teach each other today. No matter how new you are, there is someone who knows less than you and you are in the best position to teach them.
- Thinking your brand needs to be perfect from day one. It's an evolution; start small and iterate.
- Underestimating the power of consistency. Sporadic efforts have less impact than regular, even if small, contributions and engagements.

### Guided Practice

- You can add a profile README on your Github when you create a repository with a name that matches your Github username. Take a look at some [examples](https://github.com/abhisheknaiidu/awesome-github-profile-readme) and follow the [tutorials](https://github.com/abhisheknaiidu/awesome-github-profile-readme#tutorials) to set up a profile README.

### Supplemental Resources

- [templates.netlify.com](http://templates.netlify.com/) - List a variety of website templates.
- [codenewbie](https://www.codenewbie.org/) - A community for new coders that provides various resources and help, including a slack group.
- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) - Host personal or project websites directly from your GitHub repositories.
- [Carrd.co](https://carrd.co/) - For creating simple, responsive one-page personal sites.
- [Eleventy (11ty)](https://www.11ty.dev/) - A popular static site generator for building fast personal sites/blogs.
- [Awesome Developer Portfolio](https://github.com/coderjojo/creative-profile-readme) - A curated list of awesome developer portfolios.

### Check for Understanding

- What are the benefits of having a distinct Personal Brand?
- How do you build a Personal Brand?
- Mention some communities you would like to join.
