projects/blog-app/README.md, before:

### Full-Stack PERN Project: Blog app

### Introduction

Now that you have practice building apps, build something that allows us to know you better.

You are going to build a blog about whatever you want! The primary requirement is that you store at least 3 posts in your DB!

### Instructions/Notes

- For this project, you can reference previous lessons and find your own resources online.
- You must use Express, React, and Postgres. You can choose what other technologies and libraries you want to use as well as part of the project.
- Use of the [Techtonica Template created with Vite](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/tree/main/projects/2023TemplateWithVite) is required.
- **Styling/CSS is important for this assignment.**

### Technology

React
JavaScript / NodeJs
Express
SQL
Postgres
Jest
React Testing Library

### Backend:

- You need to use Postgres and Express to connect your DB.
- Your data can’t be hardcoded in the Front-end, it should come from a DB connection
- Feel free to imagine your own schema for this project, but make sure that you have a seed file with at least 3 elements

### Front-End Goals

Try to make your components small and as reusable as possible!

- React UI
- A list view with all your data
- A form so you can submit a new entry
- Choose a couple of fields that are required and have a couple that aren’t
- A click option to see the individual detail page
- Add at least one test to your components

#### PR

- Should be clean and only include files related to this project (You need to ask your mentor to do a full PR as well as one cohort mate)
- Include an appropriate .gitignore (don't commit node_modules!)
- Include a top-level README

Commit message:

adds should be comofortable section to blog readme

projects/blog-app/README.md, after:

### Full-Stack PERN Project: Blog app

### Introduction

Now that you have practice building apps, build something that allows us to know you better.

You are going to build a blog about whatever you want! The primary requirement is that you store at least 3 posts in your DB!

At the end of this week you should be very comfortable with: props, state, callback functions, CRUD operations, .map(), creating routes, creating tables, joining tables, searching for data in tables, using CSS

### Instructions/Notes

- For this project, you can reference previous lessons and find your own resources online.
- You must use Express, React, and Postgres. You can choose what other technologies and libraries you want to use as well as part of the project.
- Use of the [Techtonica Template created with Vite](https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/tree/main/projects/2023TemplateWithVite) is required.
- **Styling/CSS is important for this assignment.**

### Technology

React
JavaScript / NodeJs
Express
SQL
Postgres
Jest
React Testing Library

### Backend:

- You need to use Postgres and Express to connect your DB.
- Your data can’t be hardcoded in the Front-end, it should come from a DB connection
- Feel free to imagine your own schema for this project, but make sure that you have a seed file with at least 3 elements

### Front-End Goals

Try to make your components small and as reusable as possible!

- React UI
- A list view with all your data
- A form so you can submit a new entry
- Choose a couple of fields that are required and have a couple that aren’t
- A click option to see the individual detail page
- Add at least one test to your components

#### PR

- Should be clean and only include files related to this project (You need to ask your mentor to do a full PR as well as one cohort mate)
- Include an appropriate .gitignore (don't commit node_modules!)
- Include a top-level README
