# Week 1 Objectives

These are the concepts in the [Week 1 Worksheet](../projects/week-1-worksheet.md):

### Bash Profile

- [ ] Export environmental variables to make them always available when they open a terminal shell.
- [ ] Add a file to the \$PATH environmental variable.
- [ ] Change the terminal prompt
- [ ] Create an alias
      \*\*\*\* Upload a small screenshot to prove you've changed the terminal and added 1 alias

### Vim

- [ ] Open up a file in the Vim editor
- [ ] Navigate around within a file
- [ ] Make basic changes
- [ ] Save changes made to a file
- [ ] Exit the editor (with or without saving changes)
- [ ] Understand the difference between insert and command mode, and how to switch between them.
- [ ] Understand some of the basic structure of how editing commands work
- [ ] Use the help feature to learn more

### Professionalism

- [ ] Understand what is meant by "professionalism"
- [ ] Understand why professionalism is important both at Techtonica and in a work setting
- [ ] Understand what behaviors are expected of a professional
- [ ] Understand what accepted standards of professionalism are

### Learning How to Learn

- [ ] Their own learning style(s)
- [ ] How to fix new information in their minds
      What the Growth Mindset is and how to practice it

### Operating systems

- [ ] Which two things does the operating system interact with?
- [ ] Describe the managers used by the OS to carry out tasks.
- [ ] Which OS are you using right now? Name two other popular operating systems.

### Asking Good Questions

- [ ] How software engineers learn on the job
- [ ] What resources are available to software engineers for getting "unstuck"
- [ ] How software engineers ask questions when they need help

### Networking

- [ ] Comfortably meet new people and start conversations, online and in-person, even as introverts
- [ ] Connect with people after meeting
- [ ] Ask for what you need
- [ ] Nurture and build your network

### How the Internet Works

- [ ] How are the devices on the internet physically connected to each other?
- [ ] How is information physically transmitted from device to device?
- [ ] How does one device find another it’s trying to communicate with?
- [ ] What methods do devices on the internet use to communicate?
- [ ] How can we send data reliably even if the network is unreliable?
