web/css-part-2.md, before:

# CSS: Part 2

### Projected Time

About 5 hours

- 27 minutes for video walkthrough of CSS slides
- 10 minutes for video walkthrough of CSS-Part 2 slides
- 3.5 hours for Independent Practice (Project)
- 20 minutes for Check for Understanding

### Prerequisites

- [HTML lesson](/web/html.md)
- [Intro to CSS](./css.md)

### Motivation

- Cascading style sheets(CSS) is a style sheet language used for describing the look and formatting of a document written in a markup language like HTML. (referenced from [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets) & [town open-data portal](https://manualzz.com/doc/6479032/town-open-data-portal---dip%C3%B2sit-digital-de-la-ub))


### Objectives

**Participants will be able to:**



### Specific Things to Learn

- CSS selectors
- Common CSS properties and their allowable values
- How to incorporate CSS into web projects
- Web project file tree
- Specificity hierarchy
- The Box Model

### Materials
[CSS Diner](https://flukeout.github.io/)
[Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/)
[Flexbox Cheatsheet](https://flexbox.malven.co/)
[Add CSS to recipe-page project](../projects/recipe-page/phase-2-css-prompt.md)
[Article: Inline CSS](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/html-inline-styles)

## Lesson

CSS concepts are not hard; it's using them all together effectively and neatly on a large scale that challenges people.  Experience is key, so let's get you some.

### Guided Practice
1. Spend 30 minutes playing [CSS Diner](https://flukeout.github.io/). You play by selecting certain HTML-like dishes and foods using CSS Selectors.
1. Spend 30 minutes playing [Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/).  This one is cute - you arrange frog on lily pads using flexbox.
1. During Flexbox Froggy or after, take 5 minutes to look at this [Flexbox Cheatsheet](https://flexbox.malven.co/).  There are more good ones out there if you care to search.
1. Although CSS issues tend to be relatively easy to Google, https://css-tricks.com/ has one of the best collections of **CSS Guides**.  Take 15 minutes total to look at some of the most popular articles. You don't need to read them throughly, but instead get a feel for some of the common problems you'll be solving.
  - Flexbox: https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/
  - Centering: https://css-tricks.com/centering-css-complete-guide/
  - Color: https://css-tricks.com/nerds-guide-color-web/
  - Media Queries: https://css-tricks.com/a-complete-guide-to-css-media-queries/
  - Links and Buttons: https://css-tricks.com/a-complete-guide-to-links-and-buttons/
  - Position Property (video): https://css-tricks.com/video-screencasts/198-about-the-position-property/

### Independent Practice

No pairs will be assigned for this project, but you should rely on your classmates for help once you've spent 20 minutes working independently through something you're stuck on.

The activity for the HTML, CSS, and JS DOM lessons is a project that allows you to combine your new skills in each of these areas.

[Click here to access the instructions for the CSS portion of the recipe-page project](../projects/recipe-page/phase-2-css-prompt.md). Please don't move on to the prompts for the other topics yet.

Check for [Inline CSS](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/html-inline-styles) contents while removing _style_ tag from the webpage.

Tutorials for changing and removing style tags are provided in the [CSS slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1p-IXWxo0NEbZbHQ_Mdoo-A9dlFXqfSPOfW6navfyeTI/edit?usp=sharing)

### Challenge


### Check for Understanding


### Supplemental Resources

- [8 Games to learn CSS the fun way](https://dev.to/devmount/8-games-to-learn-css-the-fun-way-4e0f)
- [Freecodecamp has detailed lessons](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/basic-css/)
- [MDN provides great documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS)
- [Rithm School has a lesson on specificity](https://www.rithmschool.com/courses/html-css-fundamentals/specificity)
- [HTML Dog has some simple CSS tutorials](http://www.htmldog.com/guides/css/)
- Expand on CSS with [Sass](../electives/sass.md)
- [Learn to Code](https://learn.shayhowe.com/html-css/) has simple and comprehensive guide dedicated to helping beginners learn HTML and CSS.

Commit message:

feat(css-2): add MDN docs to guided prac

web/css-part-2.md, after:

# CSS: Part 2

### Projected Time

About 5 hours

- Guided Practice: 90 min
- 3.5 hours for Independent Practice (Project)
- Check For Understanding: 10 min

### Prerequisites

- [HTML lesson](/web/html.md)
- [Intro to CSS](./css.md)

### Motivation

- Cascading style sheets(CSS) is a style sheet language used for describing the look and formatting of a document written in a markup language like HTML. (referenced from [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets) & [town open-data portal](https://manualzz.com/doc/6479032/town-open-data-portal---dip%C3%B2sit-digital-de-la-ub))


### Objectives

**Participants will be able to:**



### Specific Things to ~Learn~ Practice

- CSS selectors
- Common CSS properties and their allowable values
- How to incorporate CSS into web projects
- Web project file tree
- Specificity hierarchy
- The Box Model

### Materials
[CSS Diner](https://flukeout.github.io/)
[Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/)
[Flexbox Cheatsheet](https://flexbox.malven.co/)
[Add CSS to recipe-page project](../projects/recipe-page/phase-2-css-prompt.md)
[Article: Inline CSS](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/html-inline-styles)

## Lesson

CSS concepts are not hard; it's using them all together effectively and neatly on a large scale that challenges people.  Experience is key, so let's get you some.

### Guided Practice
1. Spend 30 minutes playing [CSS Diner](https://flukeout.github.io/). You play by selecting certain HTML-like dishes and foods using CSS Selectors.
1. Spend 30 minutes playing [Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/).  This one is cute - you arrange frog on lily pads using flexbox.
1. During Flexbox Froggy or after, take 5 minutes to look at this [Flexbox Cheatsheet](https://flexbox.malven.co/).  There are more good ones out there if you care to search.
1. [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) has great detailed documentation on single CSS concept. Spend 5 minutes scanning these examples:
  - [MDN Color Picker Tool](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Colors/Color_picker_tool)
  - [The Box Model](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)
  - [Sizing](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Sizing_items_in_CSS)
  - [drop-shadow()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/filter-function/drop-shadow)
  - [:active pseudo-class](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:active)
  - [::before pseudo-element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::before)
1. Although CSS issues tend to be relatively easy to Google, https://css-tricks.com/ has one of the best collections of **CSS Guides**.  Take 15 minutes total to look at some of the most popular articles. You don't need to read them throughly, but instead get a feel for some of the common problems you'll be solving.
  - Flexbox: https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/
  - Centering: https://css-tricks.com/centering-css-complete-guide/
  - Color: https://css-tricks.com/nerds-guide-color-web/
  - Media Queries: https://css-tricks.com/a-complete-guide-to-css-media-queries/
  - Links and Buttons: https://css-tricks.com/a-complete-guide-to-links-and-buttons/
  - Position Property (video): https://css-tricks.com/video-screencasts/198-about-the-position-property/

### Independent Practice

No pairs will be assigned for this project, but you should rely on your classmates for help once you've spent 20 minutes working independently through something you're stuck on.

The activity for the HTML, CSS, and JS DOM lessons is a project that allows you to combine your new skills in each of these areas.

[Click here to access the instructions for the CSS portion of the recipe-page project](../projects/recipe-page/phase-2-css-prompt.md). Please don't move on to the prompts for the other topics yet.

Check for [Inline CSS](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/html-inline-styles) contents while removing _style_ tag from the webpage.

Tutorials for changing and removing style tags are provided in the [CSS slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1p-IXWxo0NEbZbHQ_Mdoo-A9dlFXqfSPOfW6navfyeTI/edit?usp=sharing)

### Challenge


### Check for Understanding

- Write down a few things that you feel confident about in CSS.
- Write down a few things that were especially difficult to accomplish with CSS.  
- Share these with your managers and your mentor.

### Supplemental Resources

- [8 Games to learn CSS the fun way](https://dev.to/devmount/8-games-to-learn-css-the-fun-way-4e0f)
- [Freecodecamp has detailed lessons](https://learn.freecodecamp.org/responsive-web-design/basic-css/)
- [Rithm School has a lesson on specificity](https://www.rithmschool.com/courses/html-css-fundamentals/specificity)
- [HTML Dog has some simple CSS tutorials](http://www.htmldog.com/guides/css/)
- Expand on CSS with [Sass](../electives/sass.md)
- [Learn to Code](https://learn.shayhowe.com/html-css/) has simple and comprehensive guide dedicated to helping beginners learn HTML and CSS.
