web/js-dom-methods.md, before:

# JS HTML DOM Methods

### Projected Time

Approximately 2 hours

- 6 minutes for video walkthrough of slides
- 65 minutes for Independent Practice
- 30 minutes for challenge
- 10 minutes for Check for Understanding

### Prerequisites

- [Debugging lesson](../debugging/debugging.md)
- [HTML lesson](/web/html.md)
- [CSS lesson](/web/css.md)

### Motivation

Javascript is one of most popular programming languages. Earlier Javascript was only used for designing interactive web pages but now it is used for Full Stack Development. Out of number of methods of running Javascript is through web browser, in which we interact with elements of the page.When a web page is loaded, the browser creates a Document Object Model of the page.

Prominent companies like Netflix, Walmart, Paypal built their entire applications around javascript. You may check [ironhack.com](https://blog.ironhack.com/2018/11/30/10-major-companies-using-javascript/) to check other leading companies using javascript.

### Objectives

**Participants will be able to:**

- Able to write HTML code and making changes through JavaScript
- Incorporate methods on DOM thereby making web pages interactive
- Select HTML elements by their element type, class and ID with JavaScript
- Learn ways to link JavaScript to HTML
- Learn to use element properties like `.insertAdjacentElement()`
- Implementation of classes & attributes by using `.setAttribute()` & `.getAttribute()`
- Walk through some methods to traverse and delete nodes

### Specific Things to Learn

- How to incorporate JavaScript into a webpage
- How to select HTML elements
- Common and useful JavaScript methods for basic interactivity
- Dynamically add or remove HTML elements

### Lesson

- [JS HTML DOM (slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1k6gvJ2bO88D8lE4zVyge_SQxO2FBLzJxZeM381OMXhU/edit?usp=sharing)
- [JavaScript and DOM tutorial on Treehouse](https://teamtreehouse.com/library/javascript-and-the-dom-2)  or [Vanilla DOM Manipulation - App Academy](https://open.appacademy.io/learn/full-stack-online/javascript/vanilla-dom-manipulation)  (see Guided Practice for how to choose)

### Things to Remember

- **Remember to use `.` to select classes and `#` to select ids.**
- **There are several JavaScript methods that achieve similar goals but through different means.** You should understand how they're different so you can use them appropriately.
  - `.appendChild()` vs `.insertAdjacentText()`
- "Vanilla JavaScript" is just a cute way of saying *plain JavaScript* without any extra libraries; an example of an add-on library is *jQuery*.  Vanilla JavaScript is not it's own special form of JavaScript.

### DOM Event Basics

DOM stands for Document Object Model. Each event in DOM has an event handler, aka event listener, where developers can add JavaScript to set up any automatic actions they would like to trigger once the event takes place. An example of an event is a button click. An event listener could be given a function that changes the background color of the webpage when the button is clicked.

Some common examples of events are:

- mouse events (MouseEvent): mousedown, mouseup, click, dblclick, mousemove, mouseover, mousewheel, mouseout, contextmenu
- window events: scroll, resize, hashchange, load, unload
- keyboard events (KeyboardEvent): keydown, keypress, keyup

### .addEventListener() Function

The `addEventListener()` method allows us to add event listeners on the HTML DOM object such as Document, Element, or Window. The first argument in `addEventListener()` should be a string, then name of the event that it should listen for. The second argument in `addEventListener()` is either a function to call when the event is fired, or an object that implements `handleEvent`.

Syntax: `target.addEventListener(type, listener [, options]);`

Going ahead with the previous example, the first argument would be the 'click' event on the button, and the second argument is a function that changes the page background color when the 'click' event fires.

Here's an example with a function as the listener:

```js
const button = document.querySelector("button");
button.addEventListener("click",function(){
  document.body.style.backgroundColor="blue";
});
```

On button click, the background of the body will be changed to blue.

Here's an example with an object as the listener:

```js
const ColorChangeButton = function(element) {
  this.handleEvent = function(event) {
    switch(event.type) {
      case 'click':
        document.body.style.backgroundColor = "blue";
        break;
      case 'dblclick':
        document.body.style.backgroundColor = "orange";
        break;
    }
  };

  // Note that the listeners in this case are |this|, not this.handleEvent
  element.addEventListener('click', this, false);
  element.addEventListener('dblclick', this, false);

  // You can properly remove the listeners this way:
  element.removeEventListener('click', this, false);
  element.removeEventListener('dblclick', this, false);
}
const s = new ColorChangeButton(document.body);
```

Also note in the above example that if you no longer need a particular event listener, you can remove it using `.removeEventListener()`.

### Event Bubbling and Propagation

Event propagation is the flow in which the events propagate to reach its target. It is the process of calling all the listeners for the given event type. We can register several listeners on one node for the same event type. The listeners are called in the order of their registration on reaching the node. The flow of propagation can be to the event target from the window and back, thus making it bi-directional.
The stopPropagation() method prevents the further propagation of any other event.

Syntax: `event.stopPropagation()`

Event bubbling is a way of event propagation. It refers to the order in which event handlers are called when an event is nested inside another event and both elements implement a listener for the same event. When an event takes place on an element, first the handlers are run on the inner-most element and then are successively run on its parent till it reaches the outer-most DOM element, like a bubble in water, this is known as event bubbling.

![Event Bubbling](https://cdn.javascripttutorial.net/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/JavaScript-event-bubbling.png)

In the above diagram, if we are implementing a listener for 'click' event that runs an alert() function on the button as well as on the div and body, then first the event handler is run on the button, then on the div and then the body, as the button is nested inside the div, which is again nested inside the body. On clicking the button we get three alerts, one for the button, one for the outer div and one for the body(button -> div -> body). So here the event "bubbles" from the inner-most element to its parents.

### Guided Practice

Work through the [JavaScript and DOM tutorial on Treehouse](https://teamtreehouse.com/library/javascript-and-the-dom-2).

If you aren't using Treehouse, follow this [Vanilla DOM Manipulation - App Academy](https://open.appacademy.io/learn/full-stack-online/javascript/vanilla-dom-manipulation) tutorial instead.

Note:  Our goal is to only provide free resources, so if you can't get Treehouse for free, don't use it. Most participants have been able to get Treehouse through the [SF Public Library](https://sfpl.org/articles-databases/new-treehouse-account), but you need a library card.  

#### Activity 1 - Trying Out Some important JavaScript DOM methods

For each of the following links, read the code and play around with its functionality. You can refresh the webpage to reset it.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/js/tryit.asp?filename=tryjs_dom_method) for `.getElementById()` & `.innerHTML` showing difference between method and property.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_document_getelementsbytagname_length) for `.getElementsByTagName()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_document_createelement2) for `.createElement()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_node_appendchild) for `.appendChild()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_node_removechild) for `.removeChild()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_element_getattribute2) for `.getAttribute()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_element_setattribute1) for `.setAttribute()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/JSREF/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_document_addeventlistener2) for `.addEventListener()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.tutorialrepublic.com/codelab.php?topic=javascript&file=event-bubbling) for `event bubbling`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/JSREF/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_event_stoppropagation) for `.stopPropagation()`.

#### Activity 2 - JavaScript DOM method Example

1. Using your Terminal, create a new directory inside your assignments directory and give it the name `js-dom-play`.

2. Navigate to `js-dom-play`. Open the whole directory in VS Code using the Terminal shortcut you learned in the "Local Development with VS Code" lesson.

3. Create a file called `index.html`. It should automatically appear in the left sidebar in VS Code as an editable file.

4. Read [this example code](/web/js-dom-methods-walkthrough/index.html) and talk through it with your pair partner. Once you understand what it does, copy it into `index.html` and save the file.

5. Open `index.html` in a new Chrome tab. What do you see? Is this what you expected, based on the code you read?

6. Create a new directory called `static`. Navigate to `static`. Remember that all CSS and JS files go in this `static` folder.

7. Create a new directory called `js-dom`. Navigate to `js-dom`.

8. Create a file in the `js-dom` directory called `myScript.js`. It should automatically appear in the left sidebar in VS Code as an editable file.

9. Read [this example code](/web/js-dom-methods-walkthrough/static/script.js) and talk through it with your pair partner. Once you understand what it does, copy it into `myScript.js` and save the file.

10. Refresh the Chrome tab that is currently rendering `index.html`. What happens? What do you see? What are you now able to do?

#### Activity 3 - Customize the JS DOM Method Example

1. Using the JavaScript documentation or other resources as your guide, add another div with class having an image, a paragraph describing the image and a button through javaScript.

2. Using the Javascript documentation or other resources as your guide, add a list in between the two divs using appropriate methods.

### Supplementary Materials

- [Javascript official Documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
- [JavaScript HTML DOM hands on experience on w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_htmldom.asp)
- [Introduction to DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)

### Check for Understanding

1. Where in an HTML document do you link external JavaScript file and Why?
2. What is DOM?
3. Name at least 5 methods for making changes to the DOM you used or saw today.
4. Where would you look to find more JavaScript DOM methods?
5. What are different ways of traversing the DOM?

Commit message:

feat(js-dom): add quiz note about the App Academy tutorial

web/js-dom-methods.md, after:

# JS HTML DOM Methods

### Projected Time

Approximately 2 hours

- 6 minutes for video walkthrough of slides
- 65 minutes for Independent Practice
- 30 minutes for challenge
- 10 minutes for Check for Understanding

### Prerequisites

- [Debugging lesson](../debugging/debugging.md)
- [HTML lesson](/web/html.md)
- [CSS lesson](/web/css.md)

### Motivation

Javascript is one of most popular programming languages. Earlier Javascript was only used for designing interactive web pages but now it is used for Full Stack Development. Out of number of methods of running Javascript is through web browser, in which we interact with elements of the page.When a web page is loaded, the browser creates a Document Object Model of the page.

Prominent companies like Netflix, Walmart, Paypal built their entire applications around javascript. You may check [ironhack.com](https://blog.ironhack.com/2018/11/30/10-major-companies-using-javascript/) to check other leading companies using javascript.

### Objectives

**Participants will be able to:**

- Able to write HTML code and making changes through JavaScript
- Incorporate methods on DOM thereby making web pages interactive
- Select HTML elements by their element type, class and ID with JavaScript
- Learn ways to link JavaScript to HTML
- Learn to use element properties like `.insertAdjacentElement()`
- Implementation of classes & attributes by using `.setAttribute()` & `.getAttribute()`
- Walk through some methods to traverse and delete nodes

### Specific Things to Learn

- How to incorporate JavaScript into a webpage
- How to select HTML elements
- Common and useful JavaScript methods for basic interactivity
- Dynamically add or remove HTML elements

### Lesson

- [JS HTML DOM (slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1k6gvJ2bO88D8lE4zVyge_SQxO2FBLzJxZeM381OMXhU/edit?usp=sharing)
- [JavaScript and DOM tutorial on Treehouse](https://teamtreehouse.com/library/javascript-and-the-dom-2)  or [Vanilla DOM Manipulation - App Academy](https://open.appacademy.io/learn/full-stack-online/javascript/vanilla-dom-manipulation)  (see Guided Practice for how to choose)

### Things to Remember

- **Remember to use `.` to select classes and `#` to select ids.**
- **There are several JavaScript methods that achieve similar goals but through different means.** You should understand how they're different so you can use them appropriately.
  - `.appendChild()` vs `.insertAdjacentText()`
- "Vanilla JavaScript" is just a cute way of saying *plain JavaScript* without any extra libraries; an example of an add-on library is *jQuery*.  Vanilla JavaScript is not it's own special form of JavaScript.

### DOM Event Basics

DOM stands for Document Object Model. Each event in DOM has an event handler, aka event listener, where developers can add JavaScript to set up any automatic actions they would like to trigger once the event takes place. An example of an event is a button click. An event listener could be given a function that changes the background color of the webpage when the button is clicked.

Some common examples of events are:

- mouse events (MouseEvent): mousedown, mouseup, click, dblclick, mousemove, mouseover, mousewheel, mouseout, contextmenu
- window events: scroll, resize, hashchange, load, unload
- keyboard events (KeyboardEvent): keydown, keypress, keyup

### .addEventListener() Function

The `addEventListener()` method allows us to add event listeners on the HTML DOM object such as Document, Element, or Window. The first argument in `addEventListener()` should be a string, then name of the event that it should listen for. The second argument in `addEventListener()` is either a function to call when the event is fired, or an object that implements `handleEvent`.

Syntax: `target.addEventListener(type, listener [, options]);`

Going ahead with the previous example, the first argument would be the 'click' event on the button, and the second argument is a function that changes the page background color when the 'click' event fires.

Here's an example with a function as the listener:

```js
const button = document.querySelector("button");
button.addEventListener("click",function(){
  document.body.style.backgroundColor="blue";
});
```

On button click, the background of the body will be changed to blue.

Here's an example with an object as the listener:

```js
const ColorChangeButton = function(element) {
  this.handleEvent = function(event) {
    switch(event.type) {
      case 'click':
        document.body.style.backgroundColor = "blue";
        break;
      case 'dblclick':
        document.body.style.backgroundColor = "orange";
        break;
    }
  };

  // Note that the listeners in this case are |this|, not this.handleEvent
  element.addEventListener('click', this, false);
  element.addEventListener('dblclick', this, false);

  // You can properly remove the listeners this way:
  element.removeEventListener('click', this, false);
  element.removeEventListener('dblclick', this, false);
}
const s = new ColorChangeButton(document.body);
```

Also note in the above example that if you no longer need a particular event listener, you can remove it using `.removeEventListener()`.

### Event Bubbling and Propagation

Event propagation is the flow in which the events propagate to reach its target. It is the process of calling all the listeners for the given event type. We can register several listeners on one node for the same event type. The listeners are called in the order of their registration on reaching the node. The flow of propagation can be to the event target from the window and back, thus making it bi-directional.
The stopPropagation() method prevents the further propagation of any other event.

Syntax: `event.stopPropagation()`

Event bubbling is a way of event propagation. It refers to the order in which event handlers are called when an event is nested inside another event and both elements implement a listener for the same event. When an event takes place on an element, first the handlers are run on the inner-most element and then are successively run on its parent till it reaches the outer-most DOM element, like a bubble in water, this is known as event bubbling.

![Event Bubbling](https://cdn.javascripttutorial.net/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/JavaScript-event-bubbling.png)

In the above diagram, if we are implementing a listener for 'click' event that runs an alert() function on the button as well as on the div and body, then first the event handler is run on the button, then on the div and then the body, as the button is nested inside the div, which is again nested inside the body. On clicking the button we get three alerts, one for the button, one for the outer div and one for the body(button -> div -> body). So here the event "bubbles" from the inner-most element to its parents.

### Guided Practice

Work through the [JavaScript and DOM tutorial on Treehouse](https://teamtreehouse.com/library/javascript-and-the-dom-2).

If you aren't using Treehouse, follow this [Vanilla DOM Manipulation - App Academy](https://open.appacademy.io/learn/full-stack-online/javascript/vanilla-dom-manipulation) tutorial instead.  Try the 5-question quiz that comes after as well.  If you don't know an answer after a minute or two, just move on, and try it again at the end of this outline.

Note:  Our goal is to only provide free resources, so if you can't get Treehouse for free, don't use it. Most participants have been able to get Treehouse through the [SF Public Library](https://sfpl.org/articles-databases/new-treehouse-account), but you need a library card.  

#### Activity 1 - Trying Out Some important JavaScript DOM methods

For each of the following links, read the code and play around with its functionality. You can refresh the webpage to reset it.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/js/tryit.asp?filename=tryjs_dom_method) for `.getElementById()` & `.innerHTML` showing difference between method and property.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_document_getelementsbytagname_length) for `.getElementsByTagName()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_document_createelement2) for `.createElement()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_node_appendchild) for `.appendChild()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_node_removechild) for `.removeChild()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_element_getattribute2) for `.getAttribute()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_element_setattribute1) for `.setAttribute()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/JSREF/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_document_addeventlistener2) for `.addEventListener()`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.tutorialrepublic.com/codelab.php?topic=javascript&file=event-bubbling) for `event bubbling`.

[Here is some code and a sandbox](https://www.w3schools.com/JSREF/tryit.asp?filename=tryjsref_event_stoppropagation) for `.stopPropagation()`.

#### Activity 2 - JavaScript DOM method Example

1. Using your Terminal, create a new directory inside your assignments directory and give it the name `js-dom-play`.

2. Navigate to `js-dom-play`. Open the whole directory in VS Code using the Terminal shortcut you learned in the "Local Development with VS Code" lesson.

3. Create a file called `index.html`. It should automatically appear in the left sidebar in VS Code as an editable file.

4. Read [this example code](/web/js-dom-methods-walkthrough/index.html) and talk through it with your pair partner. Once you understand what it does, copy it into `index.html` and save the file.

5. Open `index.html` in a new Chrome tab. What do you see? Is this what you expected, based on the code you read?

6. Create a new directory called `static`. Navigate to `static`. Remember that all CSS and JS files go in this `static` folder.

7. Create a new directory called `js-dom`. Navigate to `js-dom`.

8. Create a file in the `js-dom` directory called `myScript.js`. It should automatically appear in the left sidebar in VS Code as an editable file.

9. Read [this example code](/web/js-dom-methods-walkthrough/static/script.js) and talk through it with your pair partner. Once you understand what it does, copy it into `myScript.js` and save the file.

10. Refresh the Chrome tab that is currently rendering `index.html`. What happens? What do you see? What are you now able to do?

#### Activity 3 - Customize the JS DOM Method Example

1. Using the JavaScript documentation or other resources as your guide, add another div with class having an image, a paragraph describing the image and a button through javaScript.

2. Using the Javascript documentation or other resources as your guide, add a list in between the two divs using appropriate methods.

### Supplementary Materials

- [Javascript official Documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
- [JavaScript HTML DOM hands on experience on w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_htmldom.asp)
- [Introduction to DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)

### Check for Understanding

1. Where in an HTML document do you link external JavaScript file and Why?
2. What is DOM?
3. Name at least 5 methods for making changes to the DOM you used or saw today.
4. Where would you look to find more JavaScript DOM methods?
5. What are different ways of traversing the DOM?
